<doc id="79195" title="History of Sumer" nonfiltered="1" processed="1" dbindex="450000">

The history of Sumer, taken to include the prehistoric Ubaid and Uruk periods, spans the 5th to 3rd millennia BC, ending with the downfall of the Third Dynasty of Ur around 2004 BC, followed by a transition period of Amorite states before the rise of Babylonia in the 18th century BC.

The Sumerians claimed that their civilisation had been brought, fully formed, to the city of Eridu (possibly from Dilmun, later identified with Bahrain) by their god Enki or by his advisor or Abgallu (from Ab=water, Gal=great, Lu=man), Adapa U-an (the Oannes of Berossus).  This claim may be in part based upon fact, as Eridu was then on the coastline of the Persian Gulf, and was the oldest city of southern Mesopotamia.

The list of Sumerian kings contains a traditional list of the early dynasties; however much of it is likely mythical, and only a few of the early names have been authenticated through archaeology. The best-known dynasty, that of Lagash, is not listed there at all.

Periodization.

(All date ranges are approximate)

Ubaid period 5300-4100 BC (Pottery Neolithic to Chalcolithic);
Uruk period 4100-3000 BC (Late Chalcolithic to Early Bronze Age I) ;
 Uruk XIV-V 4100-3300  ;
 Uruk IV period  3300-3100 BC ;
 Uruk III = Jemdet Nasr period  3100-2900 BC ;
Early Dynastic period (Early Bronze Age II-IV);
 Early Dynastic I  period  2900-2800 BC;
 Early Dynastic II period  2800-2600 BC  (Gilgamesh);
 Early Dynastic IIIa period  2600-2500 BC;
 Early Dynastic IIIb period  2500-2334 BC;
 Lagash dynasty period  2550-2380 BC;
 Akkad dynasty period  2450-2250 BC  (Sargon);
 Gutian period  2250-2150 BC (Early Bronze Age IV);
 Ur III period  2150-2000 BC;

Earliest city-states.
It is difficult to identify what, other than the development of irrigation, may have inspired urban settlement. The centres of Eridu and Uruk, two of the earliest cities, had successively elaborated large temple complexes built of mudbrick. Developing as small shrines with the earliest settlements, by the Early Dynastic I period, they had become the most imposing structures in their respective cities, each dedicated to its own respective god.  From south to north, the principal ones were

 Eridu - Abzu Temple - Enki;
 Ur -  E-Nunmah Temple - Nanna (moon);
 Uruk - Eanna Temple - Inanna;
 Lagash - E-Ninnu temple - Ningirsu;
 Nippur - Ekur Temple - Enlil;
 Shuruppak - ? - Ninlil (wife of Enlil);
 Marad- ? - Ninurta;
 Kish - ? - Ninhursag;
 Sippar - ? - Utu (sun);
 ? - E-Kishnugal - Dumuzi;

Historians until recently agreed that before 3000 BC the political life of the city was headed by a priest-king (ensi) and based around these temples, but some more recent authors have asserted that the cities had secular rulers from the earliest times. The development of a sophisticated system of administration led to the invention of writing of numbers about 3500 BC, pictographic writing about 3100 BC, and syllabic writing about 2600 BC.

Early Dynastic period.



Archaeologists divide the Early History of Sumer into three periods - 

 Early Dynastic I (dated to the period before ca. 3000 BC);
 Early Dynastic II (ca. 3000 - 2560 BC);
 Early Dynastic III (ca. 2560 - 2320 BC);

No inscriptions have yet been found verifying any names of kings that can be associated with the Early Dynastic I period.  The Sumerian king list portrays the passage of power over time from the south to the north of the country, before finishing with a description of a universal flood.  Archaeologists have confirmed the presence of a widespread layer of riverine silt deposits, shortly after the Priora oscillation, interrupting the sequence of settlement, centred on the city of Shuruppak, and extending as far as Kish. 

1st Dynasty of Kish.


Inscriptions have been found bearing some Early Dynastic II names from the King List.  After the flood, Kingship is said to have resumed at Kish, under the reign of a king Etana. This first name on the list accompanied by any additional detail is that of Etana, whom it calls "the shepherd, who ascended to heaven and consolidated all the foreign countries".  He was estimated by Roux to have lived approximately 3000 BC.  Of the 11 kings that followed over a period assumed to have been about 350 years, a number of Semitic Akkadian names are recorded, suggesting that these people made up a sizable proportion of the population of this northern city. The first monarch on the list whose historical existence has been independently attested through archaeological finds is Enmebaragesi of Kish (ca. 2700 BC), 22nd king of that dynasty, said to have conquered Elam and built the temple of Enlil in Nippur.  
His successor, Agga, is said to have fought with Gilgamesh of Uruk, the 5th king of that city.  From this time, for a period Uruk seems to have had some kind of hegemony in Sumer.  This illustrates a weakness of the Sumerian kinglist, as contemporaries are often placed in successive dynasties, making reconstruction difficult.

1st Dynasty of Uruk.

Meshkiagkashar is listed as the first King of Uruk.  He was followed by Enmerkar, claimed by David Rohl as having been Nimrod the Hunter, mentioned in the Bible as founding Erech.  The epic Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta tells of his voyage by river to Aratta, often considered an early form of the name Urartu, but believed by some Iranian archaeologists to have been a reference to the newly-discovered Jiroft civilization although it cannot be reached by river from Sumer.  Amongst the kings of Uruk who followed are Dumuzi the Shepherd, who also appears in mythology as the husband and consort of Inanna of Uruk, goddess of that city.  He was followed by a Lugalbanda.

The most famous monarch of this Dynasty was Gilgamesh, hero of the Epic of Gilgamesh, copies of which have been found in Hattusas in Anatolia, Megiddo in Israel and Tell el Amarna in Egypt.

1st Dynasty of Ur. 

Meskalamdug is the first recorded King (Lugal from Lu=man, Gal=Great) of the city of Ur.  Another king named on the list, Mesannepada of Ur, seems through archaeological evidence to have succeeded his grandfather, Meskalamdug, and father, Akalamdug.  Mesannepada is recognised as the first king of Early Dynastic III phase, defeating Lugalkildu of Uruk (ca .2560 BC) and Mesilim of Kish, founder of the short-lived 2nd Dynasty of that city. Mesannepada thereafter assumed the title "King of Kish" for himself, a title that seems to have been used by most kings of the preeminent dynasties for some time afterward.

En-hegal, is recorded as the first known ruler of Lagash, being tributary to Uruk.  His successor Lugal-Shag-Egur was similarly tributary to the first Dynasty of Ur.  Mesalim, founder of the 2nd Dynasty of Kish, achieved some kind of independence of these Dynasties.  Mesilim was also mentioned in some of the earliest monuments from Lagash that claim he arbitrated a border dispute between Lugal-shag-engur, high priest of Lagash, and the high priest of their traditional rival, the neighbouring town of Umma.

The Sumerian records also show Nin-Kasalsi, as the first ruler of the city of Adab, at about this time.  Like the later "King" of the 3rd Dynasty of Kish, Nin-Kasalsi was a woman.  Shortly thereafter Sumerian records begin for a dynasty of rulers of the city of Mari, far to the north.

Dynasty of Lagash.
Ur-Nina.
At about 2494 BC, Ur-Nina (also called Ur Nanshe), the new high priest of Lagash, achieved independence from A-annepadda, son of Mesannepada of Ur, and made himself king, founding a dynasty. He succeeded Lugal-Shag-Ekur as high priest. In the ruins of a building attached by him to the temple of Nina, terra cotta bas reliefs of the king and his sons have been found, as well as lions' heads in onyx reminiscent of Egyptian work and onyx plates. These were "booty" dedicated to the goddess Bau. One inscription states that ships of Dilmun (Bahrain) brought him wood as tribute from foreign lands.  He was succeeded by his son Akurgal in about 2465 BC.

Eannatum.



Eannatum, grandson of Ur-Nina, made himself master of the whole of the district of Sumer, together with the cities of Uruk (ruled by Enshakushanna, of the King List), Ur, Nippur, Akshak, and Larsa. He also annexed the kingdom of Kish; however, it recovered its independence after his death. Umma was made tributary - a certain amount of grain being levied upon each person in it, that had to be paid into the treasury of the goddess Nina and the god Ingurisa.

The so-called "Stele of the Vultures," now in the Louvre, was erected as a monument of the victory of Eannatum of Lagash over Enakalle of Umma. On this, various incidents in the war are represented. In one scene, the king stands in his chariot with a curved weapon in his right hand, formed of three bars of metal bound together by rings, while his kilted followers, with helmets on their heads and lances in their hands, march behind him. 

Eannatum's campaigns extended beyond the confines of Sumer. He overran a part of Elam, took the city of Az on the Persian Gulf, and exacted tribute as far as Mari; however many of the realms he conquered were often in revolt. During his reign, temples and palaces were repaired or erected at Lagash and elsewhere; the town of Nina --that probably gave its name to the later Niniveh-- was rebuilt, and canals and reservoirs were excavated.

En-anna-tum.
He was succeeded by his brother, En-anna-tum I. During his rule,  Umma once more asserted independence under Ur-Lumma, who attacked Lagash unsuccessfully.  Ur-Lumma was replaced by a priest-king, Illi, who also attacked Lagash.  Akshak too achieved independence with a line of rulers extending from Puzur-Nirah (2420-2400), Ishu-Il (2400-2360) and Shu-Sin (c2360), son of Ishu-Il, before being defeated by the rulers of Kish.

Entemena.
His son and successor Entemena (ca 2455-2425 BC) restored the prestige of Lagash. Illi of Umma was subdued, with the help of his ally Lugal-kinishe-dudu of Uruk, successor to Enshakushanna and also on the king-list.  This Lugal-kinishe-dudu seems to have been the predominant figure at the time, since he also claimed to rule Kish and Ur.

A tripod of silver dedicated by Entemena to his god is now in the Louvre. A frieze of lions devouring ibexes and deer, incised with great artistic skill, runs round the neck, while the eagle crest of Lagash adorns the globular part. The vase is a proof of the high degree of excellence to which the goldsmith's art had already attained. A vase of calcite, also dedicated by Entemena, has been found at Nippur.

After Entemena, a series of weak, corrupt priest-kings is attested for Lagash. The last of these, Urukagina, was known for his judicial, social, and economic reforms, and his may well be the first legal code known to history.

Empire of Lugal-anne-mundu of Adab.
Following this period, the region of Mesopotamia seems to have come under the sway of a Sumerian conqueror from Adab, Lugal-anne-mundu (ca. 2400-2330 BC), ruling in Uruk, Ur and Lagash.  According to inscriptions, he ruled from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean, and up to the Zagros Mountains, including Elam. However, his empire fell apart with his death.

His power may have been limited, however, as his reign seems to have been  contemporaneous with the Third Dynasty of Kish, inaugurated by Ku-bau or Ku-baba (ca .2400-2360 BC), unique in the fact that she was the only woman ever to reign as "king".  Before overthrowing the rule of En-shukash-anna of the 2nd Uruk Dynasty and becoming monarch, the king-list says she was a tavern-keeper.  In later centuries she was worshipped as a minor goddess, achieving important status in the Hurrian and Hittite periods, when she was identified with the Hurrian goddess Hannahannah.  In the post-Hittite Phrygian period she was called Kubele (Latin Cybele), Great Mother of the Gods.

Empire of Lugal-zage-si of Umma.
Urukagina was overthrown and his city Lagash captured by Lugal-Zage-Si, the high priest of Umma. Lugal-zage-si also took Uruk and Ur, and made Uruk his capital. In a long inscription that he caused to be engraved on hundreds of stone vases dedicated to En-lil of Nippur, he boasts that his kingdom extended "from the Lower Sea (Persian Gulf), along the Tigris and Euphrates, to the Upper Sea" or Mediterranean.  His empire was finally overthrown by Sargon of Akkad, who founded the first Semitic Empire.

Akkadian Empire.


Gutian period.

Following the fall of Sargon's Empire to the Gutians, a brief "dark ages" ensued; however, one prominent Sumerian ruler of this time was Gudea of Lagash.

"Sumerian Renaissance" (3rd Dynasty of Ur).


The Gutians were finally driven out by the Sumerians under Utu-hegal of Uruk   who was in turn defeated by Ur-Nammu of Ur, who founded what is known as the 3rd dynasty of Ur.  Although the Sumerian language ("Emegir") was again made official, Sumerian identity was already in decline, as the population became continually more and more Semiticised.  

After this 'Ur-III' dynasty was destroyed by the Elamites in 2004 BC, a fierce rivalry developed between the city-states of Larsa, more under Elamite than Sumerian influence, and Isin, that was more Amorite (as the Semitic speakers had come to be called).  The Semites ended up prevailing in Mesopotamia by the time of Hammurabi of Babylon, who founded the Babylonian Empire, and the language and name of Sumer gradually passed into the realm of antiquarian scholars (although their influence on Babylonia and all subsequent cultures was indeed great).  A few historians assert that some Sumerians managed to preserve their identity in a sense, by forming the Magi, or hereditary priestly caste, noted among the later Medes.

Archaeologically, the fall of the Ur III dynasty corresponds to the beginning of the Middle Bronze Age.

See also.
Sumer;
Sumerian king list;
Babylonia and Assyria;
Invention of the Wheel;
History of writing ancient numbers;

References.
 ;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="9073024" title="Reiko Ike" nonfiltered="2" processed="2" dbindex="450001">

Reiko Ike (    - Ike Reiko) born May 25 1953 in Tokyo, Japan, is a Japanese actress, singer, and entertainer.  She is best known for her roles in the genre of action/erotic movies known as "pink films."  Ike also released an album of songs in 1971, K\F4kotsu No Sekai.  After a drug-related arrest, and another arrest for illegal gambling in the 1970s, Ike dropped out of the entertainment business.
Life and career.
Ike's career was launched with the fourth entry in Toei's Hot Springs Geisha series, Hot Springs Mimizu Geisha (1971). A media frenzy erupted following the release of this film when Ike claimed to have lied about her age to gain a part in the movie. Claiming to have in fact been sixteen years of age when she starred in this softcore sex film, Ike caused a scandal. The publicity only served to make the film one of Toei's most profitable films of the 1970s. 

In her third film, director Norifumi Suzuki's Modern Porno Tale: Inherited Sex Mania (1971), Ike co-starred with French erotic actress, Sandra Julien. Eirin, the Japanese film-rating board, objected to the graphic lesbian scenes between the two actresses, and this film had to be severely cut before it could be released theatrically. Ike decided to stop performing in nude scenes after this film, concentrating instead on films in the delinquent girl sub-genre of S&M films.  Ike starred in five of of Toei's seven Sukeban (girl delinquent boss) films made between 1971 and 1974. Patrick Macias describes this series as, "bare-chested, shotgun-packing chicks Miki Sugimoto and Ike Reiko getting into one catfight after another."  She also starred in all four of Toei's Terror Female High School films made in 1972 and 1973. Ike's later films would include appearances in Kinji Fukasaku's Battles Without Honor and Humanity series and Graveyard of Honor, and the second sequel to Sonny Chiba's The Street Fighter.

Yuko Mihara Weisser calls Ike one of the "icons of Pinky Violence," and in a review of Sex and Fury (1973), DVDManiacs.net called Ike, "the very epitome  the cinematic bad girl, playing her role with a sense of collected cool and tough attitude that can rival that of even better known North American tough gals such as Tura Satana from Faster Pussycat  Kill! Kill! or Pam Grier in Foxy Brown." 
Selected filmography.
 Hot Springs Mimizu Geisha (        - Onsen mimizu geisha) (7/3/1971);
 Girl Boss Blues   Queen Bee s Counterattack (              - Sukeban Buruusu   Mesubachi No Gyakushu) (10/27/1971);
 Modern Porno Tale: Inherited Sex Mania (             - Gendai Porno-den: Senten-sei Inpu) (12/17/1971);
 Girl Boss Blues   Queen Bee s Challenge (              - Sukeban Buruusu Mesubachi No Chosen) (2/3/1972);
 Girl Boss Guerilla (       - Sukeban Guerilla) (8/12/1972);
 Terrifying Girls High School: Women s Violent Classroom Classroom (             - Kyofu Joshi Koko   Boryoku Kyoshitsu) (9/29/1972);
 Girl Boss (    - Sukeban) (1/13/1973);
 Sex and Fury (            - Fury\F4 anego den: Inoshika Och\F4) (2/17/1973);
 Terrifying Girls' High School: Lynch Law Classroom (               - Ky\F4fu joshik\F4k\F4: b\F4k\F4 rinchi ky\F4shitsu) (3/31/1973);
 Female Yakuza Tale: Inquisition and Torture (              - Yasagure anego den: s\F4katsu rinchi) (6/7/1973);
 Terrifying Girls High School: Delinquent Convulsion Group (                - Kyofu Joshi Koko   Furyo Monzetsu Guruupu) (9/1/1973);
 Battles Without Honor and Humanity: Proxy War (            - Jingi naki tatakai: Dairi senso) (9/25/1973);
 Criminal Woman: Killing Melody (          - Zenka onna: koroshi-bushi) (10/27/1973);
 Terrifying Girls High School: Animal Courage (               - Kyofu Joshi Koko   Animaru Dokyosei) (12/1/1973);
 Girl Boss: Diamond Showdown (           - Sukeban   Taiman Shobu) (1/15/1974);
 The Street Fighter's Last Revenge (       - Gyakush\FB! Satsujin ken) (11/22/1974);
 Graveyard of Honor (      - Jingi no hakaba) (2/15/1975);
 The Golden Dog (     - \D4gon no inu) 6/2/1979) ;
References.

External links.
 Ike, Reiko biography at pinky-violence.com;
 (Ike Reiko) Filmography at jmdb.ne.jp (in Japanese);
 ;
 Sex & Fury DVD review by Ian Jane at dvdmaniacs.net, September 28, 2005.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5725012" title="Edward Robbins" nonfiltered="3" processed="3" dbindex="450002">
For other people named Edward Robbins, see Robbins;
Edward Hutchinson Robbins (February 9, 1758 - December 17, 1837) served as the Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts from 1802 to 1806. He is the great-great-grandfather of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, on the side of Roosevelt's mother, Sarah Delano:
 Edward Robbins married Elizabeth Murray;
  whose daughter, Anne Jean Robbins, married Joseph Lyman;
  whose daughter, Catherine Robbins Lyman, married Warren Delano Jr.;
  whose daughter, Sara Delano, married James Roosevelt;
  whose son was Franklin Delano Roosevelt.

 References .
 Edward Robbins at the Bush Family Geneaology;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="556305" title="Konx om Pax" nonfiltered="4" processed="4" dbindex="450003">


'Konx Om Pax: Essays in Light is a publication by British occultist Aleister Crowley, first published in 1907.  The name Konx Om Pax is a phrase purportedly used in the Eleusinian Mysteries. Its companion is Khabs Am Pekht, which in the Egyptian language means roughly "Light in extension" or "Light rushing out in a single ray", used pointedly in the Golden Dawn Vernal and Autumnal Equinox ceremonies.

 Contents .
 Introduction .

A barrage of syncretic materials introduce the work:

 the Arabic for Sura 112, al-Ikhlas, from the Qur'an;
 Ave: in John Dee and Edward Kelley's Enochian language;
 the Egyptian hieroglyphs for the Stele of Ankh-f-n-Khonsu;

Three full pages of quotations introduce this work, signaling the syncretic intention of the author.  Many sacred texts and sources such as Dante, Catullus, and Jesus are quoted.

 Dedication and Counter-Dedication .

The Dedication and Counter-Dedication are perhaps the features of this work that will best interest the casual reader who is not a student of Crowley or ancient languages.

 The Wake World .

The Wake World is a disturbingly simple allegory and should inspire any Zelator, and is appropriately called 'a Tale for Babes and Sucklings.' It mocks bad early biologists that ruined the human race ("German" biochemistry) by at one point mentioning roast babies stuffed with sausage and olives. It is also a love story, and should make sinners lament.

 Ali Sloper and the Forty Liars, or a Christmas Diversion .

After Dedication and Counter-Dedication and The Wake World (Liber XCV) - Class C
there is: Ali Sloper, 'containing an essay on AMTh' (Hebrew for "truth"). It is a play format philosophical essay, and the characters take on an important role in this format. There is even a Mr. "W"... as a character called Bones, and as the Walker family owned the Coca Cola Corporation in the 1800's and that corporation was responsible for the red and white bearded modern day image of Santa, which it started in the 30's, it is indeed an important book.

 Thien Tao (Liber XLI) .

Crowley described this as a "Political Essay- Class C".  It purports to retell a Japanese legend of some sort; it veers off characteristically into something more or less grotesque by apparently (?!) attempting to palm off Victorian morality onto Crowley's idea of the Other? It has much to do with the Knights of Malta, and their role in the destruction of bad masonic lodges. This is meant to relate to the thing in Asian organized crime called the Red Dragon, which is like a bad lodge that needs to be shut down.

 Stone of the Philosophers Which is Hidden in the Mountain of Abiegnus .

This discusses the philosopher's stone; it contains La Gintana, a love poem. 

Study of this book is recommended chiefly to serious students of Crowley's thought. Others may find it difficult and obscure.

Editions.

Teitan Press. Reprint edition, March 1990. ISBN 0-933429-04-5;
Yoga Publication Society. June 1982. ISBN 0-911662-49-9;

See also.
Works of Aleister Crowley;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3397287" title="Alan Hawkshaw" nonfiltered="5" processed="5" dbindex="450004">
Alan Hawkshaw is a composer and performer, particularly of themes for movies and television programmes. He is also the father of dance artist Kirsty Hawkshaw.

In the 1960s, he was a member of rock and roll group Emile Ford and the Checkmates. He also formed the Mohawks band with some session musicians. In the 1970s, he played in The Shadows; he worked for Olivia Newton-John as a musical director, arranger and pianist; and he was a keyboard player for Cliff Richard. He composed all the music for the Mysterious World series by Arthur C. Clarke. Hawkshaw also composed 'Best Endeavours', which has been the theme for Channel 4 News since its inception in 1982, and 'Chicken Man', which was the theme for Grange Hill from its start in 1978 until 1990. The Countdown "Chimes" jingle used on Channel 4's Countdown game show was also composed by Hawkshaw.

In the United States, he also scored a number 1 single on the Billboard Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart with "Here Comes That Sound Again" as part of Love De-Luxe With Hawkshaw's Discophonia in 1979.

 The Mohawks .

The Mohawks were a band formed from session musicians and fronted by the undisputed king of Library music composers, Alan Hawkshaw. Possibly The Mohawks were never actually a 'touring' band, but rather it was just a clever idea of some guy at KPM music in the 60's who decided to release a LP of incredibly groovy and funky library music tracks and package it under the name "The Champ".

 Track Listing .

1. The Champ
2. Hip Juggler
3. Sweet Soul Music
4. Dr Jekyll and Hyde Park
5. Se\F1or Thump
6. Landscape
7. Baby Hold On
8. Funky Broadway
9. Rocky Mountain Roundabout
10. Sound of the Witchdoctors
11. Beat Me Til I'm Blue
12. Can You Hear Me?

Tracks 4, 5, 9 and 11 also appear on the Alan Hawkshaw's album Mo'Hawk.

 Samples .

The title track ("The Champ") of the album has gotta be one of the most sampled (and emulated) melodies in Hip-Hop.

 Redman - Da Funk (Whut? Thee Album);
 Eric B. & Rakim - Eric B. Is President (Paid in Full);
 KRS One - Step into A World (I Got Next);
 EPMD - The Big Payback (Unfinished Business);
 Cut Chemist & DJ Shadow - Mohawks Champ (Brainfreeze);
 Erick Sermon - Stay Real (No Pressure);
 Breakestra - Champ (The Live Mix, Part 2);
 Main Source - Large Professor (Breaking Atoms);
 Keith Murray - Get Lifted (The Most Beautifullest Thing in This World);
 King Tee - At Your Own Risk;
and others...

External links.
The Music of Alan Hawkshaw;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8054572" title="King Harry Ferry" nonfiltered="6" processed="6" dbindex="450005">

The King Harry Ferry is a vehicular chain ferry which crosses the Carrick Roads reach of the estuary of the River Fal in the United Kingdom county of Cornwall. The ferry crosses between the villages of Feock and Philleigh, roughly half way between the city of Truro, the lowest bridging point on the estuary, and the town of Falmouth, at the estuary's mouth. The ferry is owned and operated by the King Harry Steam Ferry Company Ltd. The current ferry boat, named No. 7, was built in 2006 and can carry up to 34 cars.

It is likely that there has been a ferry of some description at the King Harry Passage for centuries, but there are conflicting stories about the origins of the name. One such story is that King Henry VIII spent his honeymoon with Anne Boleyn at St Mawes, and signed a charter for the ferry on this site. A more likely origin lies in the fact that a small chapel formerly stood on the Philleigh side of the passage. All that remains of this today is a small pile of stones, but is mentioned in 1528 as "The Chapel of St. Mary and King Henry", commemorating King Henry VI, murdered in 1471. 

The King Harry Steam Ferry was initiated in 1888 as a submerged chain ferry, using a steam engine to pull the ferry along the chains, and replacing a manually propelled barge that was previously used on the route. As its name suggests, the current ferry is the seventh vessel to be used since 1888. Although the owning company has retained the words Steam Ferry in its name, all ferries since 1956 have used diesel-electric propulsion. The company is now owned by a syndicate of five local families. 

The crossing of the River Fal has been voted one of the ten most scenic ferry trips in the world by The Independent, alongside the Staten Island Ferry in New York and the Star Ferry in Hong Kong. The Feock terminal of the ferry is adjacent to the renowned Trelissick Gardens. 

References.


External links.
King Harry Ferry web site;






 

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4406602" title="The Ugly Organ" nonfiltered="7" processed="7" dbindex="450006">


The Ugly Organ is a concept album by the indie/emo band, Cursive and their fourth full length album.  The album follows a story of lust, love, and empty sex throughout the "Ugly Organist's" life.

The album reaches an emotional peak on the last track, and the Ugly Organist exclaims that he is staying alive, amidst the cheating, murder, and loss of custody expressed during the album.

This album is the 51st release of Saddle Creek Records.  It was released on 180 gram vinyl on both black and translucent green vinyl.

Track listing.
 The Ugly Organist   0:53;
 Some Red Handed Sleight Of Hand   1:53;
 Art Is Hard   2:46;
 The Recluse   3:04;
 Herald!  Frankenstein  0:47;
 Butcher The Song   3:31;
 Driftwood: A Fairy Tale   3:14;
 A Gentleman Caller   3:19;
 Harold Weathervein   2:59;
 Bloody Murderer   2:52;
 Sierra   3:25;
 Staying Alive   10:04;

Cursive.
Gretta Cohn - Cello;
Tim Kasher - Vocals, Guitar, Organ;
Matt Maginn - Bass;
Clint Schnase - Drums, Percussion;
Ted Stevens - Guitar, Vocals;

Additional musicians.
Chris Acker - Trombone (3 & 8);
Jenny Lewis - Additional Vocals (4, 10 & 11];
Mike Mogis - Vibraphone (4), Keyboard (6), Bells (10), Ambient guitar (12);

The Staying Alive Choir.
Clark Baechle;
Todd Baechle;
Julee Dunekacke;
Rob Hawkins;
Alisa Henzman;
Renee Ledesma Hoover;
Alex McManus;
A.J. Mogis;
Conor Oberst;
Sarah Wilson;
Lexie Dougan;

 External links .
Cursive official website;
Saddle Creek Records;
The Ugly Organ CD at the Saddle Creek US Online Store;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2240126" title="TSE 300 index" nonfiltered="8" processed="8" dbindex="450007">
The TSE 300 index is a stock market index which illustrates trends within the Toronto Stock Exchange by tracking the prices of 300 highly influential stocks which are traded on this exchange.

During the early 2000s, the TSE 300 was jokingly referred to as "Nortel and the TSE 299", because of Nortel's high weighting in the index.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5227735" title="Paul Dumbrell" nonfiltered="9" processed="9" dbindex="450008">



Paul Dumbrell (born 1st September 1982), is an Australian V8 Supercar driver.

Background.
He currently resides in Melbourne, Australia, and races for the Jack Daniels Racing Team in the AVESCO V8 Supercar series. He was educated at Xavier College in Kew, Melbourne.

Racing History.
His first race was in karts in 1996 and by the end of 1997 Paul was looking to further his racing. He competed in the Australian Sprint Kart National Championships in April 1998 and then went to England to the Jim Russell International School of Racing.  During the course Paul had his first taste of a racing car, a Formula Vauxhall. Even though at age 15 he was the youngest and fastest graduate from the school, he was ineligible for the final race, for which drivers had to be 16.

On returning to Australia he looked to do a couple of races in Formula Ford but broke his hip when hit by a car while training on his mountain bike. This put him out for 8 weeks and put an end to any chance of running a Formula Ford.  At the end of 1998 he entered his first Touring Car race, the GT Production three-hour at Bathurst in a Subaru WRX, but luck was not on his side as his race ended with mechanical failure.  For the 1999 season he drove a Formula Holden in the Australian Drivers Championship, and had his first taste of the V8 Supercar series in August 1999 at Symmons Plains, Tasmania.

After a full year's experience in a Formula Holden, Paul had the chance to test a Formula 3000 car with Mark Webber for Paul Stoddart's Arrows Team, driving 20 laps in the car at Donington. When he returned back to Australia he fell into a permanent driving spot in Konica V8 Supercar Series.

2001 saw Paul running consistently at the front in the Konica Series with Race Wins, Pole Positions and the title well within his grasp - however 2001 was his bridesmaid year as preparation for winning the Konica V8 Supercar Development Series Championship in 2002.

2002 saw Paul Dumbrell picked up by Castrol Perkins Racing's Team Owner Larry Perkins as his co-driver in the Castrol Perkins Holden Commodore at both the Queensland 500 and Bathurst 1000.  At Bathurst that year, Perkins and Dumbrell finished a surprise 5th position overall. That 5th placing helped Dumbrell secure a lucrative 2-year deal with the Castrol Perkins Motorsport Team for 2003 and 2004. 

In 2005, Paul achieved his best-ever round result at Symmons Plains, Tasmania - the home of his first ever V8 Supercar start - ending the round in 5th place. 2005 also saw his best ever Driver's Championship placing, finishing in 20th, after placing 29th in 2003 and 24th in 2004. 

2005 also saw Paul nominated for Cleo Bachelor of The Year.  While he undoubtedly had the number 1 vote for Holden fans everywhere, it wasn't quite enough to secure him the title - but probably a few dates!

Current Standings.

So far in 2006, Paul has had an exemplary start to the season - driving the number 11 VZ Holden Commodore to 10th in the current championship standings... for this 24 year old, it would seem that the best is yet to come.

Paul had an excellent drive at the Bathurst 1000, finishing 5th, unlucky not to stand on the podium in the Great Race because of mechanical problems, but is definitely showing the form of an up and coming champ with some great drives so far in the 2006 season. It has been confirmed that Dumbrell will replace Greg Murphy at Super Cheap Auto Racing. But will stay in the Perkins "family" as Perkins Motorsport makes engines for Super Cheap Auto Racing.

Racing Stats.

TOTAL RACE STARTS: 47
TOTAL ROUND STARTS:
SHOOTOUT STARTS:
Bathurst 1000 - 2004, Sandown 500 - 2004, Placemakers V8 International - 2005 and Tasmania - 2005
BEST TOP 10 SHOOTOUT PLACING: 3rd - Bathurst 1000 - 2004
BEST RACE PLACING: 5th Clipsal 500 - 2005, 5th with Larry Perkins - Bathurst 1000 - 2002
BEST OVERALL PLACING: 5th Tasmania - 2005
CHAMPIONSHIP WINS: Konica Series winner in 2002

NON V8 SUPERCAR ACHIEVEMENTS:
5th 2000 Tasman Cup (Formula Holden)
6th 1999, 2000 Australian Drivers Championship
5th 1997 FMK Victorian Karting Championship

External links.
 Paul Dumbrell official site;
 Paul to Super Cheap Auto Racing;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3539459" title="Bryan Williams (rugby)" nonfiltered="10" processed="10" dbindex="450009">
Bryan Williams (born October 3 1950 in Auckland, New Zealand) is a former New Zealand rugby union footballer and coach of the Samoan national rugby team. 

Williams went to school in Mt Albert Grammar School, where he started his rugby career. He became an All Black in 1969 as a wing and distinguished himself in the 1970 South African Rugby Tour where he was a sensation, scoring 14 tries in his 13 appearances and in the international series he scored in each of the first and fourth Tests.  

Williams international rugby career lasted from 1969 to 1978 in which he played 113 matches (including 38 international Tests) and scored 66 tries in all matches as an All Black (nine tries in Tests) which was a record until beaten by John Kirwan. 

After he retired from rugby, he coached a number of club sides in New Zealand. During the 1990s onwards, he has been the national rugby coach for Samoa.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5529551" title="Stanis?aw Kronenberg" nonfiltered="11" processed="11" dbindex="450010">
Stanis aw Leopold Kronenberg (1846, Warsaw - 1894Warsaw) was a Polish-Russian financier; Born as a son of the banker and railroad tycoon Leopold Kronenberg (1812-1878) and his wife Rozalia Leo. Both his parents came from Jewish families which converted to Protestantism   the Kronenbergs to Calvinism. He was a brother of baron Leopold Kronenberg. 

After graduating from gymnasium and high school he went to France. For two years he devoted himself to the study of political economy and finance, and was granted at Paris the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. During the Franco-Prussian war he took part in the defense of Paris, retiring with the rank of lieutenant and the cross of the Legion of Honor.

Upon the death of his father he returned to Warsaw, and assumed the management of his commercial and railroad interests. He was made president of the Teraspol and Upper Vistula lines, director of the Vienna line, president of the Bank of Commerce, and director of various other commercial institutions; and was concerned in the publication of the "Gazeta Polska", "Nowin", and "Biblioteka Umiejetnoscy Prawnych". 

He left one daughter married into French aristocracy, and was be buried in the family vault at the Evangelical Reformed Cemetery in Warsaw next to his parents, and other members of the family.

 Literary works .

His writings on economy and finance, written in Polish, appeared in the "Economiscie".

He wrote also:

 "Campagne", 1870-71;
 "Quelques Souvenirs et Appr\E9ciations d'ex-Officier d'Infanterie", Paris, 1871;

 Bibliography .

 Encyklopedya Powsiechna;
 
 ();
By Herman Rosenthal & J. G. Lipman;






;
;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="579320" title="Televerket" nonfiltered="12" processed="12" dbindex="450011">
Televerket was the name of the Swedish and Norwegian government agencies for telecommunications.

1 July 1993, the Swedish Televerket was in accordance with the Swedish parliament, Riksdagen's, decision made into a corporation, Telia AB, thus making Sweden the first European country to deregulate its telecom market. However, it shall be noted that Telia maintained their monopoly on the Swedish telecom market for many years to come. The name Televerket is nowadays used, by supporters of the deregulated system, in a degrading way when referring to Telia. Worth of notice is that old telephone poles and such are still marked with the Televerket logo. Telia has since merged with the Finnish Sonera, and is now known as TeliaSonera.

In 1994, the Norwegian Televerket was turned into a state owned joint stock company. It changed its name to Telenor the following year. In 1998 the telecom market was completely opened and deregulated. Following this, Telia created a Norwegian division and became one of Telenor's competitors. It wasn't until 2000 that Telenor was partly privatized.

It is interesting to note that a fusion between Telenor and Telia was planned in the latter half of the nineties, but this merge was cancelled 16 December 1999.

 External links .
Telia;
Telenor;
TeliaSonera;
The Swedish Televerket's logotype (quite large file-size);






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3260207" title="List of Jewish American poets" nonfiltered="13" processed="13" dbindex="450012">








Persons listed with a double asterisks (**) are winners of the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry.

 Charles Bernstein, poet;
 Joseph Brodsky, poet, U.S. Poet Laureate, Nobel Prize (1987);
 Carl Dennis, poet ** ;
 Allen Ginsberg, beat poet;
 Louise Gl\FCck, poet **;
 Jorie Graham, poet **;
 Allen Grossman, poet;
 Marilyn Hacker, poet;
 Anthony Hecht, poet **;
 John Hollander, poet, critic;
 Richard Howard, poet, translator **;
 Chester Kallman, poet, librettist;
 Bob Kaufman, beat poet (Jewish father);
 A.M. Klein, poet;
 Kenneth Koch, poet;
 Maxine Kumin, poet **;
 Stanley Kunitz, poet **;
 Emma Lazarus, poet;
 Denise Levertov, poet (born UK);
 Philip Levine, poet **;
 Howard Nemerov, poet **;
 George Oppen, Objectivist poet **;
 Alicia Ostriker, poet;
 Robert Pinsky, Poet Laureate of the United States (1997-2000);
 Carl Rakosi, Objectivist poet;
 Charles Reznikoff, Objectivist poet;
 Adrienne Rich, poet;
 Jerome Rothenberg, poet;
 Muriel Rukeyser, poet;
 Delmore Schwartz, poet;
 Karl Shapiro, poet **;
 Gertrude Stein, Modernist poet/writer;
 Gerald Stern, poet;
 Mark Strand, poet **;
 Samuel Ullman, poet ;
 Louis Untermeyer, poet and anthologist ;
 Boris Zubry, poet, author, inventor, educator (born 1951;
 Louis Zukofsky, Objectivist poet;
 Zvi Yair, poet;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="64940" title="Margaret Simpson" nonfiltered="14" processed="14" dbindex="450013">
Margaret Simpson may be:

 Maggie Simpson, a fictional character, from the animated television series The Simpsons;
 Marge Simpson, a fictional character, from the animated television series The Simpsons;
 Margaret Simpson (athlete), an athlete from Ghana;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="403966" title="Asian Art Museum of San Francisco" nonfiltered="15" processed="15" dbindex="450014">

The Asian Art Museum of San Francisco is located in San Francisco, California, United States. It has one of the most comprehensive collections of Asian art in the world.

Until recently housed at the de Young in Golden Gate Park, the Asian Art Museum re-opened on March 20, 2003 in the former San Francisco city library building opposite the San Francisco Civic Center, renovated for the purpose under the direction of Italian architect Gae Aulenti of Mus\E9e d'Orsay fame.  The collection has over 15,000 works of art and artifacts from all major Asian countries and traditions, some of which are as much as 6,000 years old.  Major galleries are devoted to the arts of India, China, western Asia (including Persia), South-East Asia, Korea and Japan. There are 2,500 works on display in the permanent collection.

The museum owes its origin to a donation to the city of San Francisco by Chicago millionaire Avery Brundage, who was a major collector of Asian art. The Society for Asian Art, incorporated in 1958, was the group that formed specifically to gain Avery Brundage's collection. The museum opened in 1966 as a wing of the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum in Golden Gate Park. Brundage continued to make donations to the museum, including the bequest of all his remaining personal art collection on his death in 1975. 

In total, Brundage donated more than 7,700 Asian art objects to San Francisco, i.e. just over half the museum's current collection.  In 1995, Silicon Valley entrepreneur Chong-Moon Lee made a $15 million donation to launch the funding campaign for a new building for the museum.

The museum has become a focus for special and travelling exhibitions, including: the first major Chinese exhibition to travel outside China since the end of World War II (in 1975); an archaeological exhibition which attracted 800,000 visitors over an eight week period; an exhibition on Wisdom and Compassion opened by the Dalai Lama in 1991; and a display of the famous terra-cotta warriors of China's ancient city of Xi'an.


See also.
49-Mile Scenic Drive


External links.
Museum official website;
Photos of the museum;
View a segment on the Asian Art Museum by KQED's Spark program;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1867303" title="Nyr\F0ra-Vatnalautavatn" nonfiltered="16" processed="16" dbindex="450015">
Nyr\F0ra-Vatnalautavatn is the largest body of water on \D3feigsfjar\F0arhei\F0i in Iceland.

The lake is mostly famous for its idiosyncratic name.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7451186" title="Jackpot Airport" nonfiltered="17" processed="17" dbindex="450016">








Jackpot Airport , also know as Hayden Field, is a public airport located in Jackpot, Nevada, USA. The airport is owned and operated by Elko County.

 Facilities .
Jackpot Airport/Hayden Field covers 325 acres and has one runway:
 Runway 15/33: 6,200 x 60 ft. (1,890 x 18 m), Surface: Asphalt;

 References .
Airport Master Record (FAA Form 5010), also available as a printable form (PDF);
Great Circle Mapper: KPT - Jackpot, Nevada (Jackpot Airport/Hayden Field);

 External links .
Nevada DOT Airport Diagram (PDF);
;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1285861" title="Beretta 93R" nonfiltered="18" processed="18" dbindex="450017">


Beretta Model 93R is a selective-fire machine pistol. The "R" stands for "Raffica" which means burst in Italian. It was designed in the 70s and meant for police and military use, offering extra firepower in a small package. It is perfect for concealed carry purposes such as VIP protection, or for close quarters fighting such as room-to-room searches. 

A selector switch and the foldable foregrip allows the pistol to fire three round bursts with each pull of the trigger for a potential cyclic rate of 1100 rpm. The designers limited it to three round bursts to allow it to be more easily controlled. The 93R is basically a Beretta 92 series pistol (the Beretta 92FS is designated "M9" by the US military, and is the standard issue pistol for the US Army). But the 93R is single action and outfitted with a muzzle brake, an optional detachable shoulder stock and a 20-round magazine that also allowed for a firmer grip. It is currently out of production.




See also.
List of Italian submachine guns;
Beretta M1951R;
Machine Pistol;

External links.
Beretta 93R automatic pistol at Modern Firearms;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8638643" title="Hanare Kirishitan" nonfiltered="19" processed="19" dbindex="450018">
Hanare Kirishitans are Christians who, after the Roman Catholic Church was allowed back into Japan in the 1800's during the Meiji Restoration, did not rejoin the church and continued to practice their "hidden" version of Christianity. The Hanare Kirishitans have their roots in the Kakure Kirishitan's who were Christians that continued to practice Christianity during the 1600's and 1700's. The exact number is not known but shrines, called so because of fear of being called church, are still maintained. It has been suggested that Hanare Kirishitans can be classified as Protestant due to the fact that they did not rejoin to the Catholic Church and maintain their traditional beliefs.

See also.
Kakure Kirishitan;
Religion in Japan;
Roman Catholic Church;
Christanity;

Sources.

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="543135" title="William Stevens Fielding" nonfiltered="20" processed="20" dbindex="450019">

William Stevens Fielding, PC (Halifax November 24, 1848-June 23, 1929 Ottawa) was a Canadian journalist, politician, and Premier of Nova Scotia. Fielding became leader of the anti-confederation Nova Scotia Liberal Party. In 1884, he became Premier and won the 1886 election on a pledge to remove Nova Scotia from confederation. When he failed to do this, he turned to economic matters including developing the coal industry. 

In 1896, he left provincial politics to become Minister of Finance in the Liberal government of Sir Wilfrid Laurier. In 1910, he negotiated a reciprocity or free trade agreement with the United States which led to the government's defeat in the 1911 general election. Fielding lost his seat, and became editor of the Daily Telegraph of Montreal. 

Fielding supported the Unionist government of Sir Robert Borden during the Conscription Crisis of 1917 and returned to the House of Commons as a Liberal-Unionist member. Fielding had widely been seen as Laurier's successor but his betrayal of the party over the conscription issue cost him  the 1919 Liberal leadership convention where he lost to William Lyon Mackenzie King by 38 votes. He served again as minister of finance in King's first government formed after the 1921 election. He retired from politics in 1925.

In 1923, Fielding was sworn into the Privy Council of the United Kingdom allowing him to be styled as Right Honourable, a rare privilege among Canadian politicians who have not been Prime Minister. 

 External links .

Political biography from the Library of Parliament;
































ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2894720" title="Tomahawk Buzzcut" nonfiltered="21" processed="21" dbindex="450020">
The "Tomahawk Buzzcut" is a shaving of the Atlanta Braves tomahawk logo and/or the word "Braves" into the hair of the back or side of a usually male head. It was an early 1990's fad of Atlanta Braves fans. The Braves' fans are well-known for their die-hard attitude as well as their creative ways of showing their attitude. Pioneered by braves backup shortstop Rafael Belliard during the Braves heyday of the early- to mid-1990s, the Tomahawk Buzzcut became a staple of Atlanta Braves culture, known as "Braves Fever".



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5881195" title="Axel Holmstr\F6m" nonfiltered="22" processed="22" dbindex="450021">
 

Axel Holmstr\F6m (1881 - 1947) was a Swedish Anarchist. He was jailed in 1906 for making Anti-Militarist statements.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4566499" title="Rock Star Ate My Hamster" nonfiltered="23" processed="23" dbindex="450022">
'Rockstar Ate My Hamster' is a management strategy computer game developed by Codemasters in 1988 and originally released on their full-price Gold label for the Amstrad CPC, ZX Spectrum, Commodore 64, Amiga and Atari ST. The game was written by Colin Jones, later to become known as author/publisher Colin Bradshaw-Jones.

The name of the game was inspired by a 1986 Sun headline - 'Freddie Starr ate my hamster', which served as a focal point for mid-1980s tabloid culture and helped further the career of the comic in question.

 Synopsis .
Desperate to get out of the circus theatrics business, Cecil Pitt and his sidekick, Clive, turn to the world of Rock Management with the help of a \A350,000 inheritance.

 Objective .
To win the game, one must select a band, record an album and earn 4 gold discs within the space of a year.  If you fail to meet this target, go bankrupt or have no musicians left, the game is over.

 Gameplay .
The game is almost entirely menu driven with options that allow you to select your current decision.

Your first task as manager is to pick musicians for your band (see below), and then whether you'll buy them brand new equipment or, get some dodgy gear off the back of a lorry.  

Once in the main game, you have the option to:
 Practice - Lock your band away for up to 5 days so they can practice.
 Gig - Go on tour. This is the primary source of moneymaking in the game.
 Publicity - Organise a publicity stunt but be careful - it might just kill off your band members!
 Gifts - Buy your band some gifts to keep them sweet, otherwise they may make some rather costly ultimatums.
 Record - Once you've got a contract, you can choose to record your album.
 Release - Once the album's recorded, you can release it along with any singles.

Along the way, you'll also have to decide:
 Whether or not to play a charity gig. Some of the charities that contact you are real and others bogus.  Either way, you could end up with negative publicity if you snub a genuine charity or get duped by a bogus one.
 Whether or not to accept a sponsorship deal;
 Which recording contract is best for your band.
 What to do if a little organisation in Taiwan is pirating your records. Do nothing, sue them, buy them out or send in the heavies?

Releasing an album or single makes them eligible for the charts. A Top 10 Singles & Albums charts (depending on what you have released) gets displayed on screen every Sunday. The other bands in the Top 10 are also parodies of other rock bands.

 Musicians .
All the musicians you can hire in the game have names that parody real rock stars. Their weekly wage depends on their abilities and fame, ranging from \A330,000 for Bill Collins down to just \A350 for Sidney Sparkle.

 80's Pop Stars .
 Wacky Jacko (Michael Jackson);
 Michael Gorge (George Michael);
 Bimbo Baggins (Kylie Minogue);
 Crispy Rind (Chrissie Hynde);
 Rick Ghastly (Rick Astley);
 Dorrissey (Morrissey);
 Maradona (Madonna);
 Jason Doner-Kebab (Jason Donovan);
 Gracy Chapperson (Tracy Chapman);
 Scratch 'n' Sniffa (Salt 'n' Pepa);
 Midge Sewer (Midge Ure);
 Sado (Sade);
 Snoozy Sue (Siouxsie Sioux);

 Legends .
 Bill Collins (Phil Collins);
 Elvin Dwight (Elton John);
 Iggy Carrust (David Bowie);
 Peter Gobsmacked (Peter Gabriel);
 Annie Smallpox (Annie Lennox);
 Bryan Nylon (Bryan Ferry);
 Rotten Johnny (Johnny Rotten);
 Stiff Pilchards (Cliff Richard);
 Dingo Strapp (Ringo Starr);
 Rupert Beetle (Paul McCartney);
 John-Michael Jarrs (Jean Michel Jarre);
 Dick Knackered (Mick Jagger);
 Derek Clapout (Eric Clapton);
 Tina Turnoff (Tina Turner);
 Meat Head (Meat Loaf);
 Bruce Stringbean (Bruce Springsteen);
 String (Sting);
 Frank Zipper (Frank Zappa);
 Eddy Quicksilver (Freddie Mercury);
 Sneezy Wonderful (Stevie Wonder);
 Bonehead (Bono);
 Kate Bushed (Kate Bush);

 Rockers .
 Sidney Sparkle (Gary Glitter);
 Rodney Holder (Noddy Holder);
 Ted Newsagent (Ted Nugent);
 Dozy Trowell (Cozy Powell);
 Izzy Asbeen (Ozzy Osbourne);
 Titchy Blackhead (Ritchie Blackmore);
 Alison Nightmare (Alice Cooper);
 Lummy (Lemmy);

 Notes and References .
All the information above was taken from either the actual gameplay, the game manual and/or packaging.









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2715611" title="W?brze?no" nonfiltered="24" processed="24" dbindex="450023">

W brze no (, ) is a town in Poland, in the Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, about 35 km northeast of Toru . It is the capital of the W brze no County.  The population is 13,971 inhabitants (2004).

The town is the birthplace of Walther Nernst, a chemist who in 1920 received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the Nernst equation, which gives the standard electrode potential of an electric cell containing various concentrations of electrolytes.

 History .
At the beginning of the 13th century, a Prussian trade route developed that crossed over an isthmus between two large lakes, the Friedecksee and the Schlosssee (English: Peace Corner and Castle lakes, respectively). A defensive wall was built at this spot, and later, a settlement named Wambrez was constructed there as well. The polish duke Konrad I of Masovia turned possession of the settlement over to the bishop of Che mno. However, this created problems. At the time, the Teutonic Knights were in control of the Che mno Land, and a dispute began between the Bishop of Che mno and the Knights. However, the Pope at the time, Innocent IV was not keen to continue the dispute. He installed the Bishop of Che mno as the rightful ruler of the settlement. This dispute was the first historical mention of the settlement, which at the time was still named Wambrez. In 1251, a large church, St. Simon and Judah, was built in the city. This established the name the Teutonic Knights referred to the city, Friedeck.

At the beginning of the 14th century, a revitalization of the church and the city was begun, lead by the then-current Bishop of Che mno, Herman von Prizna. A wall was also constructed around the city to further its protection, and a castle was constructed in the city's northwestern corner. However, the city, the wall, the surrounding villages, and the castle were all completely destroyed in the Thirteen Years' War between the Teutonic Knights and the Poles. Afterwards, all of these were reconstructed, and the castle at Wambrez served as the official residence of the Bishops of Che mno until 1773.

After the end of the Thirteen Years' war in 1466, which ended with the Peace of Toru , the city became part of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The city was again totally destroyed, this time in 1655 by Swedes during the second Polish-Swedish war. A major portion of the city also burned down in a devastating fire in 1700. After the First Partition of Poland in 1772, the city became a possession of the Prussian Kingdom, and between 1807 and 1815, the city was part of the Duchy of Warsaw. In 1788, the city was renamed Briesen, which is still referred to in German. Another devastating fire destroyed much of the city in 1792, after which the city's castle was used to supply stones for the rebuilding of the destroyed areas of town.

The residents of Briesen, as it was called at the time, mostly made their living through agriculture and brewing. Industrialization arrived in Briesen in the middle of the 19th century. Industrial development flourished in the city due to its location and its access to railroads. By 1900, the city contained cement factories, as well as automotive and mechanical engineering centers. Along with this the traditional industries of the town were also modernized, with state-of-the-art breweries and creameries taking shape.

On January 20, 1920, Briesen was returned to the newly formed Polish state, and was renamed, W brze no, its current name. It was also made seat of its county. However, the city was invaded by Nazi Germany during World War II, and was a German possession between 1939 and 1945. During this time, nearly 4,000 residents of W brze no and the surrounding communities were sent to concentration camps. The Red army reclaimed the city, but this was hardly an improvement, as the Soviets conducted mass deportations even more extensive than those carried out under the German occupation. The city lost its status as county seat in 1975, but regained in 1999.

Historical Population.
1772- 502;
1943- 10,051;
1988- 12,396;
1998- 14,283;
2003- 14,523;
2004- 13,971;

 People .
 Walther Nernst;
 Ludwig von Erlichshausen;

 External links.
  Official town webpage;
 Map from Google Maps;
  Map from mapa.szukacz.pl;












ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4254245" title="Jakob Wimpfeling" nonfiltered="25" processed="25" dbindex="450024">
Jakob Wimpfeling (July 25, 1450 November 17, 1528 was a German Renaissance humanist and theologian.

Wimpfeling was born in Schlettstadt, Alsace. He went to the school at Schlettstadt, conducted by Ludwig Dringenberg. In 1464 he became a student at the University of Freiburg, where he received his baccalaureus in 1466; later he went to the University of Erfurt and the University of Heidelberg, where he received his magister in 1471; He then studied Canon law for three years, and finally theology. 

In 1483, he was cathedral preacher at Speyer. In 1498, Philip, the Elector Palatine, called him to Heidelberg as professor of rhetoric and poetry. From 1513, he lived at Schlettstadt, where a circle of pupils and admirers gathered around him. Differences of opinion on Lutheranism broke up this literary society. 

After Martin Luther's excommunication he took part in the attempt to prevail upon the Curia to withdraw the ban. This caused him to be suspected of having written a lampoon on the Curia, Litancia pro Germania, which was probably actually written by Hermann von dem Busche. 

In 1521, Wimpfeling submitted to the church, of which he was ever afterwards a loyal son. In 1524 he added to Jerome Emser's dialogue against Huldrych Zwingli's Canonis missae defensio in an open letter to Luther and Zwingli, in which he exhorted them to examine the scriptures carefully in order to discover for themselves that the Canons of the Mass contains nothing contrary to the doctrines and customs of the early Church. Wimpfeling then retired from the struggle, and was ridiculed by Lutherans as a renegade and a persecutor of heretics. 

Works.
Wimpfeling's literary career began with a few publications in which he urged the more frequent holding of synods, the veneration of the Blessed Virgin, and an improvement of the discipline of the clergy. The Elegantiarum medulla (1493) is an extract from Valla's books on the elegance of the Latin language. In the Isidoneus germanicus (1496) he presented his pedagogical ideals, and opposed scholasticism. The teaching of grammar should lead to the reading of heathen writers who were not immoral and especially of the Christian writers. He also laid emphasis on learning the practical sciences. 

His most important work, Adolescentia (1500), was intended to supplement Isidoneus. Here he set forth the ethical side of his pedagogical scheme. The troubles of the Church spring from the bad training of the young; consequently, young people must be trained so as to be well-established in morals. He then discusses the details of twenty laws for young men. 

He showed himself a fiery patriot in the Germanic (1501), which involved him in a feud with Murner. His Epitome rerum germanicarum is a short history of the Germans, drawn in some particulars from other historians. In several writings he opposed abuses in the Church. 

References.
Charles Schmidt, Histoire litteraire de l'Alsace (Paris, 1879), I, 1-187; II, 317- 39;
Joseph Knepper, Jakob Wimpfeling (Freiburg, 1902);

 
 
 
 
 



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7347908" title="Yun Tong-ju" nonfiltered="26" processed="26" dbindex="450025">

Yun Tong-ju (December 30 1917 - February 16 1945) was a Korean poet active during the period of Japanese rule.  Known for his writing of lyric poetry as well as resistance poetry, he was born in Hwaryong-hyeon, Gando, in present-day Manchuria, China.

Life.
Yun Tong-ju was the eldest son among the 4 children of his father Yun Yeong-seok and his mother Kim Yong.  As a child he was called "Haehwan" (  ,   ).  On December 27 1941, he graduated from Yeonhui Technical School, which later became Yonsei University.  He had been writing poetry from time to time, and chose 19 poems to publish in a collection he intended to call "Heaven, Wind, Stars, and Poetry" (            ), but he was unable to get it published.

In 1942, he went to Japan and entered the English literature department of Rikkyo University in Tokyo, before moving to Doshisha University in Kyoto six months later.  On July 14 1943, he was arrested as a thought criminal by the Japanese police and detained at the Kamogawa Police Station in Kyoto.  The following year, the Kyoto regional court sentenced him to two years of prison on the charge of having participated in the independence movement.  He was imprisoned in Fukuoka, where he died in Febrary 1945.  The following month, he was buried in Yeongjeong in Gando.

Posthumous activity.

In January 1948, 31 of his poems were published by Jeongeumsa, together with an introduction by Chong Ji-yong; this work was also titled Heaven, Wind, Stars, and Poetry.

In November 1968, Yonsei University and others established an endowment for the Yun Tong-ju Poetry Prize.

References.


See also.
List of Korean language poets;
Korean independence movement;
Korean literature;

External links.
Naver Encyclopedia entry;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5482368" title="Teng Yin" nonfiltered="27" processed="27" dbindex="450026">


Teng Yin () was a minister of the Kingdom of Wu during the Three Kingdoms Period of China. Teng Yin plotted the tyrannical Zhuge Ke's assassination with that of Sun Jun. Teng Yin was later promoted to grand marshal through this fact. Teng Yin once again plotted the assassination of another tyrant of Wu, Sun Chen. However, Teng Yin was discovered and was killed. Sun Chen ended up dying not too long later in the same fashion as Zhuge Ke, a banquet.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1497565" title="Pali-Aike Volcanic Field" nonfiltered="28" processed="28" dbindex="450027">




Palei-Aike Volcanic Field is a Pleistocene-to-Holocene Palei-Aike volcanic field  at the border of Argentina and Chile.

Source.

 Global Volcanism Program entry;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="864721" title="Mausu Promotion" nonfiltered="29" processed="29" dbindex="450028">
Mausu Promotion (          ), formerly known as Ezaki Productions, is a Japanese talent management agency representing a fair number of prolific seiy . They include:

Y suke Akimoto;
Kiyomi Asai;
Kyoko Hikami;
Mitsuaki Hoshino;
Akira Ishida;
Yasuyuki Kase;
Koichi Kitamura;
Ema Kogure;
Kaho Kouda;
Naoko Kouda;
Mitsuaki Madono;
Rokuro Naya;
Akemi Okamura;
Daisuke Ono;
Ikue Otani;
Akio Ohtsuka;
Miyuki Sawashiro;
Akimitsu Takase;
Atsuko Tanaka;
Makoto Tsumura;
Narumi Tsunoda;
External links.
 Homepage in Japanese;
 ;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5490024" title="Indian Distance Education Association" nonfiltered="30" processed="30" dbindex="450029">


Indian Distance Education Association (IDEA) is a body which has been formed to study the organization and functioning of the professional association of Indian Distance Educators, popularly nick named as IDEA.  

It is a voluntary Association established in the year 1992, strives to be a broad-based professional association / organization, consisting of members of permanent faculty of Distance Education / Open Universities / Correspondence Education / Continuing Education Institutions and those educationists and researchers interested in the growth and development of Distance Education in India and joined together towards the pursuit of common interests as indicated in the bye-laws of the Association.
How it started?
Started in 1992 with 30 members drawn from 12 Universities at their first meeting held in Warangal has later grown into a respectable professional Association with National and International recognition and affiliations.  During the last 12 years it has attracted many an individuals and organizations and has now become one of the most sought after Associations.  The present paper deals with the structure and working of Indian Distance Education Association (IDEA) and narrates its features through a preliminary analysis of its activities and programmes.

Objectives of IDEA

The following are the main objectives of the Indian Distance Education Association (IDEA) and it shall endeavour to achieve the same by undertaking various activities :

 	To provide a forum for interaction amongst individuals, institutions and organizations engaged in teaching, research or other programmes related to Distance Education.

 	To represent and undertake various activities promoting the interests leading to the growth and development of Distance Education Institutions in India.

 	To provide documentation, bibliographic and other services.

 	To disseminate needed information to all agencies engaged in teaching, research and other educational development programmes.

 	To organize periodic conference, seminars, workshops, meeting etc. and undertake all those activities, which will help strengthen Distance Education Systems in India.

 	To mobilize necessary services and resources with a view to strengthen and assist scholars working for the growth and development of Distance Education in India.

 	To publish Reports, Documents, Newsletters, Journal and other Literature, establish and organize libraries, documentation, reference centres to serve the teachers, researchers and other members drawn from Distance Education Institutions.

 	To develop a network for collection of information relating to teaching, research and other development activities related to the Distance Education.

 	To workout details relating to Inter-University collaboration; media between Government and Non-Governmental Organizations, Funding Agencies, Research Organizations etc., while undertaking various programmes mutually concerned for protecting the interest of Distance Education.

 	To work in collaboration with other like-minded organizations / Distance Education Associations at National and International levels and initiate joint action projects mutually helpful to all individual members in particular and participant - member countries in general.



Further Information:
For further information about IDEA and its conferences follow the link below.
http://www.idea-india.org





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="961054" title="Timeline of Republic of China history" nonfiltered="31" processed="31" dbindex="450030">
This is a timeline of the History of the Republic of China on mainland China (1912-1949).

For the timeline of the History of the Rebublic of China on Taiwan (1945-present), see Timeline of Taiwanese history.

20th Century.
1911-1920.
1911: Wuchang Uprising.
1912: Flag of the Republic of China "Five-Colored Flag" selected as the national flag by the provisional senate.
1912: Sun Yat-sen elected First Provisional President of the ROC by delegates from independent provinces.
1912: Last emperor of China Puyi forced to abdicate.
1915: Twenty-One Demands.
1919: Treaty of Versailles.
1919: May Fourth Movement.

1921-1930.
1924: Whampoa Military Academy established.
1925: National Revolutionary Army founded.
1926: Northern Expedition.
1927: Chinese Civil War.
1928: Flag of the Republic of China "Blue Sky, White Sun, and a Wholly Red Earth" flag adopted as the official flag.

1931-1940.
1931: Mukden Incident;
1932: Manchukuo;
1933: Tanggu Truce;
1935: He-Umezu Agreement;
1935: East Hebei Autonomous Council;
1936: Xi'an Incident.
1937: Marco Polo Bridge Incident.
1937: Second Sino-Japanese War.
1937: Tungchow Mutiny;
1937: Nanking Massacre;

1941-1950.
1943: USA repeals the Chinese Exclusion Act.

See also.
 Timeline of Chinese history;
 Timeline of People's Republic of China;
 Timeline of Taiwanese history;
 Timeline of Hong Kong history;
 Timeline of Macau history;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6891227" title="Malpa\EDs" nonfiltered="32" processed="32" dbindex="450031">



Malpa\EDs is a band from Costa Rica.  The musicians of Malpa\EDs perhaps best exemplify the  new sound  of Costa Rica   contemporary compositions that build on the solid tradition of their musical roots. The group takes its name from the most remote, jungle-cradled beach on the north-Pacific Nicoya Peninsula   the beach at road s end.

Members.
 Fidel Gamboa (Lead vocals, guitar, flauta, musical arrangement);
 Jaime Gamboa (Bass & backing vocalist);
 Iv\E1n Rodr\EDguez (Violin, mandolin & backing vocalist);
 Gilberto Jarqu\EDn (Drums);
 Manuel Obreg\F3n (Piano, keyboard, marimba, caracol & backing vocalist);
 Carlos "Tapado" Vargas (Drums & percussion);

Past Members.
 Patricio "Pato" Barraza (Inconsciente Colectivo);
 Bernardo Quesada;

Discography.
Studio Albums.


External links.
 Official website;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6235788" title="?erif G\F6ren" nonfiltered="33" processed="33" dbindex="450032">


 erif G\F6ren is a Turkish film director. Aside from important films under his own signature, he is also the winner of Palme d'Or ("Golden Palm") award in Cannes Film Festival in 1982 with the film "Yol", that he had directed on behalf of Y lmaz G\FCney, who at the time was serving time in jail for the murder of Yumurtal k judge Safa Mutlu. 

 erif G\F6ren was born in 1944 in Xanthi, in Greece. He started his film career as an editor, and then continued as an assisting director. He directed his first film "Endi e" (The Anxiety) in 1974. He directed more than thirty films in a decade. The film "Yol" he directed on behalf of Y lmaz G\FCney won a Palme d'Or ("Golden Palm") in Cannes Film Festival in 1982 (he shared the prize with Costa Gavras for his film "Missing").

 Filmography .

 Serseri a  klar (2003) (mini) TV Series ;
 K r k ayna (2002) (mini) TV Series ;
 Amerikal  "The American" (1993) ;
 Abuk sabuk bir film (1990) ;
 Polizei (1988, Germany) ;
 On kad n "Ten women" (1987) ;
 Adem ile Havva "Adam and Eve" (1986) ;
 Kan "The blood" (1986) ;
 Kurba alar "The frogs" (1985) ;
 Firar "The escape" (1984) ;
 G\FCne  do arken "While the sun rises" (1984) ;
 Derman (1983) ;
 G\FCnesin tutuldugu g\FCn (1983) ;
 Yol (1982) (on behalf of Y lmaz G\FCney) ;
 Ali an (1982);
 Tomruk (1982);
 Feryada g\FCc\FCm yok (1981);
 Herhangi bir kadin (1981);
 Yilan  \F6ld\FCrseler (1981);
 K r g\F6nl\FCn\FCn zincirini (1980);
 Almanya, ac  vatan (1979);
 A k  ben mi yarattim (1979);
 Derdim d\FCnyadan b\FCy\FCk (1978);
 Gelincik (1978);
 Istasyon (1977);
 Nehir "The river" (1977);
 Deprem "The earthquake" (1976);
  ki arkada  "Two friends" (1976);
 Taksi  of\F6r\FC "Taxi driver" (1976/I);
 K\F6pr\FC "The bridge" (1975);
 Endi e "The anxiety" (1974);
 Umut (1970) (co-director for Y lmaz G\FCney);

Footnotes.









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="186546" title="Ch?ya Nakahara" nonfiltered="34" processed="34" dbindex="450033">

 (29 April 1907 - 22 October 1937) was a poet active in early Showa period Japan.

Early life.
Nakahara Ch ya was born in Yamaguchi Yamaguchi Prefecture in 1907, where his father was an army doctor. In his early life, his father was posted to Hiroshima and Kanazawa, returning to Yamaguchi in 1914. In 1915, his younger brother died, and in sorrow he turned to composing poetry. He submitted his first three verses to a local newspaper in 1920, when he was still in elementary school. In 1923, he moved to the Ritsumeikan Middle School in Kyoto. He later graduated from the Foreign Studies Department of Tokyo Imperial University.

Literary career.
Initially, Ch ya favored poetry in the Japanese traditional tanka format, but he was later (in his teens) attracted to the modern free verse styles advocated by Dadaist poet Takahashi Shinkichi and by Tominaga Tar . 

After he moved to Tokyo, he met Kawakami Tetsutaro and Ooka Shohei, with whom he began publishing a poetry journal, Hakuchigun (Idiots). He was befriended by the influential literary critic Kobayashi Hideo, who introduced him to the French symbolist poets Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine, whose poems he translated into Japanese. The influence of Rimbaud went beyond just his poetry, and Nakahara came to be known for his "bohemian" lifestyle.

Ch ya adapted the traditional counts of five and seven used in Japanese haiku and tanka, but frequently tripped these counts with variations, in order to obtain a rhythmical, musical effect. Several of his poems were used as lyrics in songs, so this musical effect may have been carefully calculated from the start. 

Ch ya's works were rejected by many publishers, and he found acceptance primarily with the smaller literary magazines, including Yamamayu, which he launched together with Kobayashi Hideo, (although on occasion Shiki and Bungakukai would condescend to publish one of his works). He remained close friends with Kobayashi all of his life, despite the fact that his girlfriend left him for Kobayashi shortly after their first meeting. He eventually married and had a daughter who died in infancy, which sent him into a nervous breakdown from which he never fully recovered. Many of his later poems seem like remembrances and attempts to mitigate this enormous pain.

Ch ya died at the age of 30 of cerebral meningitis. Only one of his poetry anthologies, Yagi no Uta (Goat Songs, 1934) appeared while he was alive (in a self-financed edition of two hundred copies). He had edited a second collection, Arishi Hi no Uta (Songs of Bygone Days) just before his death. 

During his lifetime, Ch ya was not counted among the mainstream of poets, but his verses have a wide and increasing following even to this day. Ch ya is now a subject of classroom study in Japanese schools, and his portrait in a hat with a vacant stare is well known. Kobayashi Hideo, to whom Ch ya entrusted the manuscript for Arishi Hi no Uta on his deathbed was responsible for the posthumous promotion of his works, and Ooka Shohei for collecting and editing The Complete Works of Nakahara Ch ya, a collection containing the poet's uncollected poems, his journals, and many letters.

Legacy.
A literary award, the Nakahara Ch ya Prize was established in 1996 by  Yamaguchi city (with the support of publishers Seidosha and Kadokawa Shoten) in Ch ya's memory. The award is presented annually to an outstanding collection of contemporary poetry characterized by a "fresh sensibility" (shinsen na kankaku). The winner receives a cash award of 1 million yen, and the winning collection is also published in an English language translation.

See also. 
 Japanese literature;
 List of Japanese authors;

References.
 Nakahara, Chuya. (Beville, Ry. Trans.), Poems of Days Past (Arishi hi no uta). American Book Company (2005). ISBN: 1928948081;
 Nakahara, Chuya. (Beville, Ry. Trans.), Poems of the Goat. American Book Company (2002). ISBN: 1928948081;
ISBN-10: 1928948049
 Thunman, Noriko. Nakahara Chuya and French symbolism. University of Stockholm (1983). ISBN: 9171463143;
 Kurahashi, Ken ichi. Shinso no jojo: Miyazawa Kenji to Nakahara Chuya (Miyazawa Kenji ron sosho). Yadate Shuppan; (1992). ISBN: 4946350020 (Japanese);

External links.
 Fan page in English and Japanese;
Nakahara Ch ya Memorial Museum in Yamaguchi (Japanese site);
e-texts of Ch ya's works at Aozora bunko (Japanese site);
Literary figures of Kamakura;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3869964" title="It's Already Written" nonfiltered="35" processed="35" dbindex="450034">

It's Already Written
US #14  

Track listing.
"It's Already Written Part I"   ;
"I Like That (featuring Chingy, Nate Dogg & I-20)"   ;
"Twizala Intro";
"Twizala";
"Ain't Nothing Wrong"  ;
"My Promise (featuring LeToya)"   ;
"Keep it on the Low (featuring Don Yute)" ;
"What You Say"  ;
"Love You Down" (featuring Luke & Q);
"Alright" (featuring Jazze Pha);
"Bye Bye Love";
"Didn't Give a Damn interlude";
"Didn't Give a Damn";
"She Is";
"It's Already Written Part II (Thunder)";







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="350279" title="Iraq Survey Group" nonfiltered="36" processed="36" dbindex="450035">


The Iraq Survey Group (ISG) was a fact-finding mission sent by the multinational force in Iraq after the 2003 Invasion of Iraq to find weapons of mass destruction (WMD) programs developed by Iraq under the regime of former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. Its final report is commonly called the Duelfer Report. It consisted of a 1,400-member international team organized by The Pentagon and CIA to hunt for suspected stockpiles of WMD, such as chemical and biological agents, and any supporting research programs and infrastructure that could be used to develop WMD. 

Formation.

The ISG was made up of more than one thousand Americans, Britons and Australians, with the United States providing the bulk of the personnel and resources for the operation. These people included civilian and military intelligence and WMD experts, as well as a large number people working to provide armed security and support. David Kay, a prominent U.S. scientist who searched for WMD after the first Gulf War, was chosen to head the group. The agency tasked as the head U.S. Government Agency of the ISG was a joint venture of the CIA and the DIA (Defense Intelligence Agency, the DoD counterpart to the CIA which is primarily responsible for inter-agency cooperation)

The Iraq Survey Group was the successor to the United Nations inspections teams, UNMOVIC led by Hans Blix and from the IAEA led by Mohamed ElBaradei, which had been mandated by the U.N. Security Council to search for illegal weapons before the conflict (See Iraq disarmament crisis).

 Organization and Operations .
To make the WMD search more manageable, ISG was operationally divided up into several sectors each with its own Sector Control Point. The three sectors were North, Baghdad and South, with Sector Control Point-Baghdad (also known as SCP-B or "skip bee") being the primary and largest. SCP-B and the core of the ISG staff were located on Camp Slayer at the former Al Radwaniyah Presidential Site on Baghdad International Airport in western Baghdad.

From its founding in the spring of 2003 until disbandment at the end of February 2005, SCP-B was commanded by a series of coalition officers from the U.S. Army, U.S. Marines and Australian Army. Its first commander was U.S. Army Reserve Colonel George Waldroup, who led the group from its founding until the summer of 2004. He was later picked by U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to head the Strategic Support Branch of the Defense Intelligence Agency. Following COL Waldroup, USMC COL Frank Johnson was pulled from retirement and took the reigns until October 2004. COL Johnson was followed by Lt Col Carr, an Australian engineer, who was briefly followed by MAJ Peck (now LTC). The final commander of SCP-B was Australian Military Police Major Damien Hick.

SCP-B's missions included not only the search for WMD, but work on counter-terrorism and the ongoing investigation into the fate of U.S. Navy Captain Michael Scott Speicher, who was shot down during the Gulf War of 1991. Initially presumed dead, he was later declared missing when evidence emerged after the war that he had survived the crash of his aircraft.

SCP-B was organized into several Mobile Collection Teams, or MCTs, made up of members of American, British and Australian forces, with Americans providing the vast majority. An MCT generally consisted of a commander -- usually a major or captain (although MCTs were led by lieutenants and full colonels at times) -- and anywhere from ten to twenty other personnel, depending on mission requirements. The majority of SCP-B personnel were mobilized American National Guard or Army Reserve Soldiers (although the United States Navy, Marines and Air Force, as well several coalition forces, were also well represented) as well as some US Army Special Forces Personel. The other key piece of SCP-B were the U.S. Army Military Police crews assigned to the organization. The Military Police provided convoy and site security for the MCTs as well as secure transport for ISG personnel in their travels around Baghdad.  SCP-B also contained other special units, such as dog handlers (who were mostly civilian contractors), explosives ordnance disposal, ground-penetrating radar teams and a WMD transportation and storage group. 

By any measure other than the obvious (actually finding WMD stockpiles), SCP-B was remarkably successful. Acting as an independent entity outside of the normal chain of command (ISG reported directly to Rumsfeld), it surveyed and exploited hundreds of possible WMD sites across the breadth of Iraq with very few problems. Except for two unfortunate incidents, SCP-B's casualty record was exceptional, considering the amount of time its personnel spent on the roads and out among the populace. The first incident was the paint factory explosion of April 26th, 2004, which killed two Soldiers (US Army sergeants Lawrence Roukey, and Sherwood Baker) and injured several more. These were SCP-B's first casualties in over a year of operations. The second was a vehicle-borne IED attack against Charles Duelfer's convoy, which claimed the lives of two of Duelfer's PSD (SSG Clinton Wisdom and SPC Don Clary, both of the Kansas Army National Guard's 130th Field Artillery Regiment).

Throughout the life of ISG and SCP-B, there were only two occasions where chemical weapons were found. The first was a sarin mortar shell which had been reworked into a roadside improvised explosive device by insurgents. The second was a handful of 122-millimeter rocket warheads filled with inert mustard gas that was recovered near Babylon. Both were thought to be remainders from the Iran-Iraq War and were useless as offensive weapons. Both were later destroyed by ISG personnel. In late 2004 the ISG and the MCTs undertook some counter insurgency operations, although many details remain classified. There were other missions and organizations operating within the ISG which are Top Secret and are unlikely to be declassified anytime soon.

Interim Progress Report.
After six months searching for WMD, the ISG issued an Interim Progress Report on October 3, 2003.  The team has found evidence of "WMD-related program activities" but no actual chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. In addition to details of dormant WMD programs, the October 2003 report also includes discoveries of non-WMD programs banned by the U.N. and concealed during the IAEA and UNMOVIC inspections that began in 2002. The discoveries made by the ISG include a "clandestine network of laboratories . . . that contained equipment . . . suitable for continuing chemical biological weapons research" and vials of "live C botulinum Okra B from which a biological agent can be produced." . Lines of enquiry adopted by the ISG include the examination of sites across Iraq, as well as interviewing scientists, truck drivers and other workers with possible knowledge of WMD. The failure to find any stockpiles of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons has proved a problem for Washington and London, who used intelligence indicating that Iraq did possess WMD stockpiles as one of the primary justifications for the invasion of Iraq. The British government, in particular, placed very heavy emphasis on this intelligence.

David Kay resigns.
On January 23, 2004, the head of the ISG, David Kay, resigned his position, stating that he believed WMD stockpiles would not be found in Iraq. "I don't think they existed," commented Kay. "What everyone was talking about is stockpiles produced after the end of the last Gulf War and I don't think there was a large-scale production program in the nineties." In a briefing to the Senate Armed Services Committee, Kay criticized the pre-war WMD intelligence and the agencies that produced it, saying "It turns out that we were all wrong, probably in my judgment, and that is most disturbing." 

Kay told the SASC during his oral report the following, though: "Based on the intelligence that existed, I think it was reasonable to reach the conclusion that Iraq posed an imminent threat. Now that you know reality on the ground as opposed to what you estimated before, you may reach a different conclusion- although I must say I actually think what we learned during the inspection made Iraq a more dangerous place, potentially, than, in fact, we thought it was even before the war."

Kay's team has established that the Iraqi regime had the production capacity and know-how to produce a great deal more chemical and biological weaponry when international economic sanctions were lifted, a policy change which was actively being sought by many United Nations member states. Kay also believed some components of the former Iraqi regime's WMD program had been moved to Syria shortly before the 2003 invasion , though the Duelfer Report Addenda (see below) later reported there was no evidence of this.

On February 6, 2004, Bush convened the Iraq Intelligence Commission, an independent inquiry into the intelligence used to justify the Iraq war and the failure to find WMD.  This was shortly followed by the conclusion of a similar inquiry in the United Kingdom, the Butler Review, which was boycotted by the two main opposition parties due to disagreements on its scope and independence .  In 2003, The U.S.-sponsored search for WMD had been budgeted for $400 million, with an additional $600 million added in 2004.

Kay's successor, named by CIA director George Tenet, was the former U.N. weapons inspector Charles Duelfer, who stated at the time that the chances of finding any WMD stockpiles in Iraq were "close to nil."

Duelfer Report.
On September 30, 2004, the ISG released the Duelfer Report, its final report on Iraq's WMD programs. The Key Findings are as follows:

 Saddam totally dominated the Regime s strategic decision making. ;
 Saddam s primary goal from 1991 to 2003 was to have UN sanctions lifted, while maintaining the security of the Regime.
 The introduction of the Oil-For-Food program (OFF) in late 1996 was a key turning point for the Regime. ;
 By 2000-2001, Saddam had managed to mitigate many of the effects of sanctions and undermine their international support. ;
 Iran was the pre-eminent motivator of desire to rebuild Iraq's WMD capability.
 The Iraq Survey Group (ISG) judged that events in the 1980s and early 1990s shaped Saddam s belief in the value of WMD.
 The former Regime had no formal written strategy or plan for the revival of WMD after sanctions.

Operations Tempo 2004-2005.
Although the search for WMD had been conducted earnestly and fruitlessly during the initial year of the occupation, site exploitation continued through the summer of 2004. In late summer and early fall, the WMD search tempo slowed considerably; all of the most promising sites had been exploited in 2003-2004 and even most of the unpromising sites had been exploited by fall of 2004.

In late September and into October of 2004, the number of site exploitations increased significantly, although most of these were revisits to already-exploited sites - some of which had been altered by Iraqis in the intervening months. For instance: the former Iraqi Chemical Brigade headquarters building in Baghdad was in the midst of being converted to office space when ISG personnel returned for a second visit.

ISG's exploitation operations mostly ceased in early November of 2004. Most MCTs were disbanded and the personnel returned to their parent units and the MP teams that supported them were dispersed to other camps and given other missions.

In January 2005, the group announced the conclusion of its search.  The ISG stated that while it had, "not found evidence that Saddam possessed WMD stocks in 2003," they acknowledged "the possibility that some weapons existed in Iraq, although not of a militarily significant capability." 

March 2005 Report Addenda.
In March 2005 Duelfer added an addenda to the original report, covering five topics:
 Prewar Movement of WMD Material Out of Iraq, stating "ISG judged that it was unlikely that an official transfer of WMD material from Iraq to Syria took place" but also acknowledging that "ISG was unable to complete its investigation and is unable to rule out the possibility that WMD was evacuated to Syria before the war.";
 Iraqi Detainees, concluding "the WMD investigation has gone as far as feasible. ... there is no further purpose in holding many of these detainees".
 Residual Proliferation Risks: People, concluding "former WMD program participants are most likely to seek employment in the benign civil sector, either in Iraq or elsewhere ... However, because a single individual can advance certain WMD activities, it remains an important concern".
 Residual Pre-1991 CBW Stocks in Iraq, concluding "any remaining chemical munitions in Iraq do not pose a militarily significant threat ... ISG has not found evidence to indicate that Iraq did not destroy its BW weapons or bulk agents".
 Residual Proliferation Risk: Equipment and Materials, concluding "Iraq s remaining chemical and biological physical infrastructure does not pose a proliferation concern".

In media interviews before the addenda were published, officials went further on the important question of the possible smuggling of WMD to Syria, saying they had not seen any information indicating that WMD or significant amounts of components and equipment were transferred from Iraq to neighboring Syria or elsewhere. 

See also.
Iraq disarmament crisis;
2003 - 2004 occupation of Iraq timeline;
Iraq and weapons of mass destruction;
Post-invasion Iraq, 2003 2005;
Rationale for the Iraq War;
War on Terrorism;
Mohammed Munim al-Izmerly;

External links.
Main;
 "Statement by David Kay on the Interim Progress Report on the Activities of the Iraq Survey Group, before the House permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, The House Committee on Appropriations, Subcommitte on Defence, and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence". October 2, 2003. (Known informally as the "Kay Report" on Iraq's WMD.);
 "Comprehensive Report of the Special Advisor to the DCI on Iraq s WMD". 30 September 2004. (Known informally as the "Duelfer Report" on Iraq's WMD; Copies are also available at findlaw's site.);
 "Comprehensive Report Addendums of the Special Advisor to the DCI on Iraq s WMD".  March 2005.

Other;
 Teaser of upcoming documentary film Land of Confusion featuring Pennsylvania Army National Guard Soldiers assigned to the Iraq Survey Group in 2004-05.
 Description of Al Radwaniyah Presidential Site on GlobalSecurity.org;
 News (Reuters): Bush orders independent probe on Iraq intelligence;
 News (BBC): UK WMD committee vows to press on;
 News (Associated Press): Victims of Explosion Were Members of ISG;
 David Kay biography;
 Iraq weapons inspector David Kay's congressional testimony Iraq Survey Group Report on WMD in Iraq;
 News (War-Wire): Former UN weapons inspector replaces David Kay as Iraq WMD adviser. Washington (AFP).
 News (BBC): In Quotes: What Blair Said About Iraq's Weapons Before and After the War;
 News (BBC): October 2004 report;
 News (American Broadcasting Company): Bush: Iraq Invasion Worth It Despite Lack of WMD;
 News (CBS): No Basis For WMD Smuggling Claims;
 SourceWatch;
 Secret emails, missing weapons;
 Camp Speicher;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5444622" title="HIM International Music" nonfiltered="37" processed="37" dbindex="450036">
HIM International Music is a Taiwanese record label.

 Artists .
 S.H.E (Selina Ren, Hebe Tian, Ella Chen);
 Power Station;
 Tank;
 Kaira Gong;
 Fahrenheit;

See also.
 List of record labels;

 External links .
 Official homepage;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1591653" title="Einstein Cross" nonfiltered="38" processed="38" dbindex="450037">

 

The Einstein Cross or Q2237+030 or QSO 2237+0305 is a gravitationally lensed quasar that sits directly behind ZW 2237+030, Huchra's Lens. It is quadruply imaged, hence its name, Einstein Cross, forming a nearly perfect cross, with the lensing galaxy at its center.

The quasar is located about 8 billion light years from Earth, while the lensing galaxy is located at a distance of 400 million light years.

The Einstein Cross can be found in Pegasus at 22h40m30s +3d21m30s.
 See also .

 Einstein ring (Chwolson ring), ;
 Gravitational lensing;
 Quasar;

References .




 External links .

 Photo of the Einstein Cross at Astronomy Picture of the Day;












ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1850712" title="Santa Elena (canton seat)" nonfiltered="39" processed="39" dbindex="450038">
Santa Elena is a city in western Guayas, Ecuador. It is the seat of the canton of Santa Elena, created in 1837.

At the 2001 census there were 111,671 people living within the canton limits.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3191825" title="Dennis Lawrence" nonfiltered="40" processed="40" dbindex="450039">

Dennis Lawrence (born August 1, 1974) is a 6'7" Trinidad and Tobago football player, who has joined on a two year deal with Swansea City FC in the English Football League One. 

Lawrence signed for Wrexham in 2001, joining from Defence Force of his native Trinidad, becoming the third Trinidadian at Wrexham along with Hector Sam and Carlos Edwards.  After some poor performances when he first joined the club, the Tallman became a valued and popular player at the Welsh club, winning the 2003/4 Player of the Season award. He has also become the first Wrexham player to play at a World Cup, starting all three of his country's games.

Lawrence is an important player for the Trinidad and Tobago national team, having made his debut March 18, 2000.  He was awarded the MVP (Most Valuable Player) award at the 2001 Caribbean Cup, which Trinidad and Tobago won. On November 16, 2005 he (in his 61st cap) scored the goal against Bahrain that awarded Trinidad and Tobago a ticket to the 2006 World Cup. He is also the player who approached Port Vale's Christopher Birchall and asked him if he was interested in representing Trinidad and Tobago (Chris' mother was born there).

He signed for Swansea City on 16th August 2006 after Swansea had lost central defender and skipper Garry Monk to injury. He made an impressive Swansea debut in a 2-0 win over Doncaster Rovers winning the Man of the Match award.

Trivia.
Lawrence had trials at Newcastle United and Bolton Wanderers FC before joining Wrexham AFC in 2001.;
Dennis signed with Wrexham AFC for a fee of \A3100,000. ;
Lawrence was also named the Copa Caribe 2001 MVP player of the Tournament.
Lawrence was named Wrexham's player of the season for the 2003/2004 season.
Lawrence also scored the goal that sent T&T to the 2006 world cup finals in Germany, it was a great header of a Dwight Yorke corner during a play-off game with Asia's Bahrain.
Dennis signed with Swansea on August 16 2006 and played his first match with Swansea on 19 August playing against Doncaster.

External links.
 Yahoo: Dennis Lawrence Profile.;
 BBC: Dennis Lawrence;
 Swansea Player Profile;



















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5984215" title="Salsoul Jam 2000" nonfiltered="41" processed="41" dbindex="450040">

Salsoul Jam 2000 is the sixth album released by Grandmaster Flash & the Furious Five. It was released in 1997.

Track listing.
Intro;
Runaway;
Hit and Run;
High;
Love Thang;
Spring Rain;
Dr. Love;
Checkin' You Out;
Make up Your Mind;
I Got My Mind Made Up;
Just the Right Size;
My Love Is Free;
Ooh I Love It (Love Break);
Let's Celebrate;
Call Me;
Slap Slap Lickety Lack;
Let No Man Put Asunder;
Love Sensation;
Here's to You;
Ten Percent;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4396760" title="BibleLand" nonfiltered="42" processed="42" dbindex="450042">


Bibleland is the title of a 1994 album by rock band Daniel Amos, released on BAI Records. 

Bibleland is a rough and gritty rock record with lots of noise and distortion recorded mostly live-in-the-studio. 

The title song pokes fun at cheap religious merchandise in the form of a fictional Amusement Park (although based on several real parks) called "Bibleland." The album's artwork includes a "Circus" style gatefold illustration by Douglas TenNapel.

Track listing.
 "Broken Ladders to Glory" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "Bibleland" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "Theo's Logic" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "Low Crawls and High Times" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "Bakersfield" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "Out in the Cold" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "The Bubble Bursts" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "Pete and Repeat" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "Constance of the Universe" (Words and music by Taylor) ;
 "I'll Get Over It" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "She's Working Here" (Words and music by Taylor);
 "Stone Away" (Words by Taylor, Music by Taylor/Chandler/McTaggart);

 Credits .
 Terry Scott Taylor on rhythm guitars and lead vocals.
 Tim Chandler on bass guitar.
 Greg Flesch on guitar.
 Jerry Chamberlain on guitars.
 Ed McTaggart on drums. ;

Additional musicians.
 Gene Eugene: Piano on "I'll Get Over It".

Production notes.
 Executive Producers: Ojo Taylor & Gene Eugene. ;
 Engineered by Gene Eugene and Terry Taylor. ;
 Recorded at The Green Room, Huntington Beach, California. ;
 Mixed by Gene Eugeneat Mixing Lab A and the Green Room. ;
 Mastered by Doug Doyle at Digital Brothers. ;
 Art Direction, Design, Photography, Digital Chicanery, etc. by Tom Gulotta and Court Patton, Patton Brothers Design, San Diego, California. ;
 Scanning, Color Proofing and Film Output by Ed McTaggart at the Color Edge, Costa Mesa, California. ;
 Band Photo by Trisha Kluck. ;
 Illustrations by Doug TenNapel. ;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7389428" title="SQLyog" nonfiltered="43" processed="43" dbindex="450043">


SQLyog is a Graphical User Interface (GUI) for the popular Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) MySQL. The software is created by the software development company Webyog.

Program specifications.
Platforms.
SQLYog works only on the Windows platform however a version for Linux is rumoured to be in the making.

 External links .
 Offical WebYog home page Official WebYog home page.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4182027" title="Ceylanp?nar" nonfiltered="44" processed="44" dbindex="450044">
Ceylanp nar is an agricultural district of anl urfa Province of Turkey, situated on the border with Syria and reached by a long straight road across the plain south from Viran ehir. There is a border crossing to the town of Resu'l-Ayn in Syria and many families in the district have relatives there. The border itself has been lined w th land-mines but some of this is being cleared for farmland nowadays. 


 




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="590260" title="Arak (distilled beverage)" nonfiltered="45" processed="45" dbindex="450045">
For the South East Asian liquor, see Arrack;


Arak or araq (Arabic:     IPA ) is a clear, colourless, unsweetened aniseed-flavoured distilled alcoholic drink, produced in the eastern Mediterranean, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Palestine, Israel and Iraq.  The word comes from Arabic araq    , meaning "sweat" or "juice".  Arak is not to be confused with the similarly named liquor, arrack.

 Consumption .

Arak is usually not drunk straight, but is mixed in approximately 1/3 arak to 2/3 water, and ice is then added. This dilution causes the liquor to turn an opaque milky-white colour.  Arak is also commonly mixed with teas and juices.  Drinkers may also take arak with a chaser on the side. Arak is usually served with mezza, which could include dozens of small dishes, which many arak drinkers prefer as accompaniment rather than main courses. When the main course of the meal is served, it may hardly be touched, in favour of these smaller dishes. It is also well appreciated with barbecues, along with garlic sauce.

Tradition requires that water is added before ice, because if ice is added directly it results in the formation of an aesthetically unpleasing skin on the surface of the drink. For the same reason, an arak glass should never be refilled directly after being emptied; a clean glass must be used each time. In restaurants, when a bottle of arak is ordered the waiter will usually bring a number of glasses along with it for this reason.

 Preparation . 
It all begins with the vineyards, and the grapevine quality. The vine should be well mature, usually of a golden colour. The vineyards are not sprinkled, they are left to the care of the  Mediterranean climate, natural rain and sun. The grapes are cultivated in late September and October. The grapes are squeezed and put in barrels together with the juice (in Arabic El Mestarr), and left to ferment for three weeks. Occasionally the whole mix is stirred to release the CO2.

Now the first distillation, the goal is to get the alcohol out of the mixture that has fermented for three weeks. The distillation is done using the alembic or el karkeh also al karkeh, made of copper. It's basically three parts. The lower being a container used to boil what's inside (on fire). The middle part collects the vapors coming out of the boiling ingredients. The third part is used to cool the vapor that will be transformed to liquid and collected on its way out, usually in a container of glass. So the mixture of all the fermented and squeezed grapes is put into the lower part and it is boiled at a temperature around 80\B0C (boiling temperature of alcohol), but below 100\B0C (boiling temperature of water). The idea is to collect the alcohol in the container without any water.


Now the second distillation, here is made the actual final product. The alcohol collected in first distillation is to be distilled again but this time mixed with aniseed. The whole alembic is washed to remove all the remains of the precedent distillation. The alcohol and the aniseed are mixed together in the lower part of the karkeh (called in Arabic ddessett). The ratio of alcohol to aniseed may vary, it's one of the major factors of the quality of the final product. Another distillation takes place, usually on the lowest possible temperature. The procedure is very slow.

Traditionally a drinking party takes place at the same time. People would gather to help the producer and have a drinking party. This is one of the most prestigious and traditional parties of the Lebanese mountains. It usually takes place in November.

Note: Once the first distillation is done, it's not mandatory to have the second one immediately after.

 Variations .
One of the basic varieties, considered by many to be the prototypical arak, is distilled from grapes and anise.  Numerous varieties of arak are popular in all the countries edging the Mediterranean, and in parts of the Far East. In the Levant, it is distilled from fermented grape juice or, at times, sugar, and is considered by the inhabitants to be greatly superior to similar hard liquors in other countries. The same spirit is called Ouzo in Greece, Mastika in Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria and Rak  (another form of the word arak) in Turkey; they are made from a variety of products like grain, molasses, plums, figs and potatoes. Other similar drinks are the arak of Iraq, made from fermented date juice, and the zibib of Egypt, a peasant-made drink. An Iranian variant, called Aragh-e Sagi (Persian:        , literally dog's sweat), is produced without anise, and has a higher alcohol content than other varieties.  Further west, along the northern shores of the Mediterranean, the Italian anesone, French pastis and Spanish oj\E9n, served as aperitifs or refreshers, are all sweeter versions of arak. Also, in the Far East, a comparable drink known as arrack, distilled from palm sap or rice, is very popular; in Korea it is known as Soju.  

While arak is extremely popular in Syria, the most prized brands are Lebanese, amongst them Ksara and, most famous of all, Massaya. Many Lebanese drinkers, however, themselves distil their own liquor. The quality of home-made arak (arak baladi) is considered far superior to commercial brands. Some restaurants occasionally serve home-made Arak at a very high price.

Many Lebanese towns are well known for their high quality home made Arak, among them Zahle in the Bekaa valley. The best quality can be found in Toula, a village in the Northern Lebanese Mountains. Toula is very well known across the north for its famous home made arak;you can find it in any restaurant in zgharta or ehden two important towns around that area.

The ABV differs from one version to another, with the most alcoholic reaching 80% or even more. The best quality arak is usually between 53% and 60%; when mixed with water it is diluted to 20-30%.

 History .
It is believed that arak was developed by the Christian and Jewish minorities of the Islamic Middle East. Jabir ibn Hayyan, a Muslim alchemist of the early Islamic era, invented the alembic, which facilitated the distillation of alcoholic spirits, the name used in Lebanon is al karkeh or little more formally al kattara. However, Muslims did not use his invention to produce alcoholic beverages since, in Islam, the consumption of alcohol is forbidden. Hence, his discovery was employed to distill perfume from flowers and to produce kohl, a women's eye cosmetic in which a black powder is liquefied, then converted to vapour and allowed to re-solidify. 

The Arabs carried the art of distilling kohl to Spain from where it spread to the remainder of Europe. In these Christian lands, it took on a much different use: the production of alcoholic drinks.  With the utilisation of this method of producing hard spirits, the Arabic name "al-kohl", which became alcohol, was adopted due to the similar method the Arabs used in manufacturing this cosmetic. The words in English relating to the art of distillation, besides alcohol, such as "alchemy", "alchemist", and "alembic" attest to the Arab origin of producing the many intoxicants found in western lands. 

Traditionally, arak was generally of local or village manufacture, but in the last few decades it has increasingly been produced in large manufacturing plants.  It has remained the preference of those who enjoy alcoholic drinks in the Middle East, in competition with the many drinks imported from the West.

 See also .
 Arrack, a different drink from Southeast Asia;
 Airag, a Mongolian drink;
 Flavored liquor;

 Sources and external links .
 Preparing Arak, in Toula (Lebanon);
 Wine and Dine e-magazine;
 Copper Alembic Distillers;





















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7028227" title="Slough Estates" nonfiltered="46" processed="46" dbindex="450046">

Slough Estates REIT (also known as Slough Estates International) is a property investment and development company.  It develops and invests in property located in the UK, Continental Europe and the USA focusing on edge of town flexible business space. Formerly a plc it switched to Real Estate Investment Trust status when REITs were introduced in the United Kingdom in January 2007. Slough Estates PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange.

Slough Estates owns commercial and industrial properties in the UK, France, Germany, Belgium and the USA. Their original investment, Slough Trading Estate (operated by Slough Trading Estates plc, a subsidiary of Slough Estates) is the largest trading estate in Europe under single ownership. Among sites recently acquired in the UK are ones in Bristol, Cambridge and Southampton. They have also begun one of the biggest developments in their history at the former Royal Aircraft Establishment 'factory' site at Farnborough, Hampshire.

Unlike many other property companies, which have chosen to contract out the management of their assets, Slough Estates have always managed their properties directly. Until recent years, Slough Estates owned a mixture of retail and industrial sites, but the company website suggests a recent tightening of focus to concentrate on industrial (and particularly distribution) sites . 
Bibliography.
Cassell, Michael Long Lease! The Inside Story of Slough Estates, Pencorp Books 1991;

References.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8336795" title="Rollie Miles" nonfiltered="47" processed="47" dbindex="450047">


Roland "Rollie" Miles (February 16, 1927 - August 17, 1995) was a professional football player for the Canadian Football League Edmonton Eskimos.  Miles played offence (running back),  defence (linebacker, defensive back), and special teams (kickoff/punt returner, punter), during his eleven career with the Eskimos.  Miles is a member of the Canadian Football Hall of Fame, the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame, and the Edmonton Eskimos Wall of Honour.

 Early life & college career .
Miles was born in Washington, D.C. and attended college at St. Augustine's College (Raleigh) in Raleigh, North Carolina.  At St. Augustine's, Miles excelled in baseball, football and track and field. Miles came to Canada to play baseball in Regina, Saskatchewan, but was convinced by the famed Annis Stukus to play football for the Edmonton Eskimos. He would continue to play semi-professional baseball in Canada during his CFL career.

 Professional football career .
Miles was one of the most versatile players in history of the CFL during his eleven year (1951 to 1961) career with the Edmonton Eskimos. As a defensive player (linebacker and defensive back), Miles intercepted 38 passes for 547 yards.  As a special teams player, Miles returned punts (finishing with 279 punt returns for 2,085 yards) and kickoffs (88 returns for 2,131 yards), and punted on occassion. On offence, Miles was often found in a backfield with such CFL greats as Jackie Parker, Normie Kwong, Johnny Bright, Bernie Faloney and Don Getty, he could run or pass on the option with skill.

Selected as a CFL Western Conference All-Star eight times (three at running back, three at defensive back, two at linebacker) Miles was also named the Eskimos' team Most Valuable Player three times.

Miles played in five CFL Grey Cup championship games, winning three during the Eskimos' dynasty of successive Grey Cup titles in 1954, 1955, and 1956. Miles played in the famous 1954 Grey Cup game with separated ribs, but still helped his underdog team win that classic game.

Miles was inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame and the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame in 1980.  The Eskimos added Miles' #94 jersey to its Wall of Honour in 1983. The City of Edmonton named the Rollie Miles Athletic Field in his honor.

 Later life and death .
Miles received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Alberta in 1956, and began work in the off season with the Edmonton Catholic School Board, where he taught school and organized high school sports.  Miles continued working with the Edmonton Catholic School Board upon his retirement from the CFL in 1961.

Miles and his wife, Dr. Marianne Miles, had seven children: Craig "Tony" Miles, Rolanda Miles, Michelle Miles, Monica Lipscombe, Rollie Miles, Jr. (lineman on the University of Alberta Golden Bears 1980 Vanier Cup national championship football team, and Most Valuable Player of the 1980 Churchill Bowl), Brett Miles (noted singer, songwriter and saxophonist), and Mario Miles  (co-founder of the Millwood Grizzlies Minor Football Association in Edmonton in 1996, and coach from 1996 to 2003). 

Miles' grandson, Mario Miles, Jr. played for the Millwood Grizzlies from 1996 to 1999. Another grandson, Jefferson Lewis Miles, played football for the national champion Okanagan Sun Junior Team in Kelowna, British Columbia.

Miles passed away in 1995 at age 68, in Edmonton, and is buried at Holy Cross Cemetery, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

 Trivia .
Miles is buried in the same cemetery as his former Eskimos teammate, Johnny Bright.

References.




 External links .
Alberta Sports Hall of Fame Biography - Rollie Miles;
Canadian Football Hall of Fame Profile - Rollie Miles;
















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4000199" title="Tom Erikson" nonfiltered="48" processed="48" dbindex="450048">
Tom Erikson is a professional mixed martial arts fighter from USA. He has also had fights in K-1 under K-1 rules. His K-1 record is currently one win and three losses. 

He holds a victory over boxer Matt Skelton under MMA rules. In 2004 he faced current WBO heavyweight boxing champion Shannon Briggs under K-1 rules and was knocked out in the first round.  



Biography.
Career.
Holds a 3-2-0 record in PRIDE, and a total career record of 9-3-1.

See also.
List of male mixed martial artists;
External links.
Team Go-Riki;
K-1 record;
MMA record;

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4905709" title="Doce" nonfiltered="49" processed="49" dbindex="450049">


Doce was a Portuguese female band from the eighties.

The girls took part in the Portuguese national final in order to represent the country in the Eurovision Song Contest 1980 with the song "Doce" ("Sweet"), but came second and in the Eurovision Song Contest 1981 with the song "Ali-B\E1b\E1, um homem das Ar\E1bias". However, they came fourth. One year later, they won with "Bem Bom" and went on the Eurovision to reach the thirteenth position. 

The members were Laura Diogo, Lena Coelho, F\E1tima Padinha, and Teresa Miguel. Those last two were the female half of the band Gemini who represented Portugal in 1978.

 Discography .

Albums

OK KO (LP, Polygram, 1980);

\C9 Demais (LP, Polygram, 1981);

Doce 1979-1987  (Compila\E7\E3o, Polygram, 1986);

15 anos Depois (Compila\E7\E3o, Universal, 2002), CD;

Doce Mania (Compila\E7\E3o, Universal, 2003), CD;

Singles

Amanh\E3 de Manh\E3/Depois de Ti (Single, Polygram, 1980);

Doce/Um Beijo S\F3 (Single, Polygram, 1980);

OK KO/Doce Caseiro (Single, Polygram, 1980);

Ali-B\E1b\E1 (Um Homem das Ar\E1bias)/Jingle T\F3nico (Single, Polygram, 1981);

\C9 Demais/D\F3i-d\F3i (Single, Polygram, 1981);

Bem Bom/Perfumada (Single, Polygram, 1982);

For The Love Of Conchita/Choose Again (Single, Polygram, 1983);

Starlight/Stepping Stone (Single, Polygram, 1983);

Quente, Quente, Quente/Eu e o meu namorado (Single, Polygram, 1984);

O Barquinho da Esperan\E7a/A hist\F3ria do barquinho (Single, Polygram, 1984);












ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4680458" title="Chuck Pierce" nonfiltered="50" processed="50" dbindex="450050">
Dr. Charles D.  Chuck  Pierce is a Christian leader. He is an ordained minister and serves as President of Glory of Zion International Ministries in Denton, Texas. While Dr. Pierce's own ministry focuses on the prophetic, much of his activity focuses on supporting other apostolic ministries. Dr. Pierce travels and speads throughout the world, and has produced many teaching books, articles, tapes and videos.

External links.
 Glory of Zion Ministries;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3250169" title="The Nelson Report" nonfiltered="51" processed="51" dbindex="450051">
The Nelson Report is a daily communiqu\E9 of international events used by politicians in Washington, D.C. It is run by Chris Nelson, who also serves as its editor.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5975560" title="S.P. Reno Centese A.S.D." nonfiltered="52" processed="52" dbindex="450052">


Societ\E0 Polisportiva Reno Centese Associazione Sportiva Dilettante is an Italian football club located in Cento, Emilia-Romagna. It currently plays in Serie D. Its colors are blue and light blue.

External links.
Official homepage;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4101447" title="Josh Hannay" nonfiltered="53" processed="53" dbindex="450053">


Josh Hannay (born January 11 1980 in Moranbah, Queensland) is a rugby league player for the Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks in the National Rugby League (NRL) competition.

Hannay is currently the greatest point-scorer in the history of the Cowboys club. He was named to make his debut at the age of 16 during the 1996 season; however, his selection was vetoed by the Australian Rugby League, as he was not 16 years of age at the beginning of the year. He has been named in the centres for Queensland in game 3 of the 2006 State Of Origin series, this was considered as out of the blue as Hannay has played more Queensland Cup than NRL.

He has since signed to play for the Cronulla Sharks in 2007 til end of 2008.

 Position - Centre;
 Previous Clubs - North Queensland;
 NRL Debut - Cowboys v Parramatta Eels, Parramatta Stadium, Round 3 1998;
 Career Games - 141;
 Career Tries - 47;
 Career Goals - 335;
 Total Career Points - 858;
 Representative Honours - 2 game for Queensland State of Origin team, 2003, 2006.

Information accurate to end of 2005 season

 External Links .
 State of Origin Offical website Rugby League Player Stats;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2513143" title="Statistical Lab" nonfiltered="54" processed="54" dbindex="450054">


The computer program Statistical Lab (Statistiklabor) is an explorative and interactive toolbox for statistical analysis and visualization of data. Thru this clearness approach and by a lot of functions it supports education in the field of statistics in business sciences, economics, social sciences and humanities. The program is developed and constantly advanced by the Center for Digital Systems of the Free University of Berlin. On september, 11th 2006 the new version 3.5 has been released as Free software. The source-code is available for non-commercial purposes under the GPL. 

Simple or complex statistical problems can be simulated, edited and solved individually with the Statistical Lab. It can be extended by using external libraries. Via these libraries also adaptation to individual and local demands like specific target groups can be realized. The versatile graphical diagrams allow demonstrative visualization of underlieing data.

The Statistical Lab is the successor of Statistik interaktiv!. In contrast to the commercial SPSS the Statistical Lab is didactical driven. In the first place it focusses statistical newbies. It combines data frames, contingency tables, random numbers, matrices in a user friendly virtual worksheet. This worksheet allows users to explore playfully the possibilities of calculations, analysis, simulations and manipulation of data.

For mathematical calculations the Statistical Lab uses the Engine R, which is a free implementation of the language S Plus (originally developed by Bell Laboratories). The R-Project is constantly beeing improved by worldwide community of Developers. 

References.
Schlittgen: Das Statistiklabor - Einf\FChrung und Benutzerhandbuch, Springer: Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, 2005, ISBN 3-540-22389-4 (German only);
Kladroba: E-learning in der Statistik - Ein Vergleich verschiedener Lernsoftwareangebote, Allgemeines Statistisches Archiv Band 90/2 (2006), S. 323 - 340 (German only);

External links.
Homepage of the Statistical Lab - in English;
Statistical Lab Tutorial for newbies - English versions available;
forum for Statistical Lab users - bilingual English and German;
Tigris.org Source-Code of the Statistical Lab (discontinued, source-code now available in the download-area of the main pages: );
Homepage of the R-Project;
Homepage of the Center for Digital Systems;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6693273" title="Technical Difficulties (album)" nonfiltered="55" processed="55" dbindex="450055">


Technical Difficulties is a heavy metal album recorded by Racer X.  It is the band's third studio record, and introduced the final lineup of the band   which excluded Bruce Bouillet.

It was the first Racer X album to be recorded after the band's hiatus.

Track listing.
"Phallic Tractor";
"Fire of Rock";
"Snakebite";
"Technical Difficulties";
"Miss Mistreater";
"Bolt in My Heart";
"17th Moon";
"Waiting";
"Poison Eyes";
"B.R.O.";
"God of the Sun";
"Give it to Me";
"The Executioner's Song";
"Children of the Grave" *;

* Bonus track included on Japanese version.

Personnel.
John Alderete, bass guitar;
Paul Gilbert, lead and rhythm guitar;
Jeff Martin, vocals;
Scott Travis, drums;

Additional credits.
 B.R.O. originally composed by J.S. Bach; rearranged by P. Gilbert ;
 Children of the Grave written by Tony Iommi, Bill Ward, Geezer Butler, and Ozzy Osbourne;

External links.
 Official Racer X website;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2513976" title="Yarumal" nonfiltered="56" processed="56" dbindex="450056">


Yarumal is a municipality in the Antioquia Department, Colombia.

Yarumal was founded in 1787 as San Luis de Gongora. Municipal status was granted in 1821. The current name of Yarumal comes from a local plant belonging to the Moraceae family, known in botanical Latin as Cecropia peltata L. The municipality (3 parishes and 20 villages) has an area of 724 sq. km, 35,315 inhabitants, and its average elevation is 2,265 m above sea level.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8676503" title="Top 2000" nonfiltered="57" processed="57" dbindex="450057">
The Top 2000 is a radio program on the Dutch radio station Radio 2, and has been broadcast since 1999. It is broadcasted annually at the end of the year, starting from 0:00 on Boxing Day (which the Dutch simply call "the second day of Christmas"), and continuing non-stop until 0:00 at New Year's Eve.

In these 6 days the 2000 most popular songs of all times are played. What those songs are is decided by the show's audience, through internet voting. The number 1 between 1999 and 2004 was the song "Bohemian Rhapsody" by Queen. In 2005 the Dutch song "Avond" by Boudewijn de Groot reached number 1, but in 2006 Queen retook the number 1 position.

Initiative.
The top 2000 was created in 1999 as part of activities surrounding the passing into the new millennium. The idea was to finish the year 1999, and enter the year 2000, with the 2000 best songs ever made. From the start of 1999, the listeners of Radio 2 were asked to select a song along with any special memories attached to the song, and send it to Radio 2 via mail or email. This way, 2000 so called "Millennium-songs" were collected throughout the year 1999. At the start of November 1999, these songs were placed on a website, and the voting was started. This led to the Top 2000. A sort like Top 2000 (but then filled with music from the nineties and recent music) was held on the Radio station "Radio 538", which featured a much younger audience, but this was a one time happening.

The first broadcast of the Top 2000 was a huge success, probably because of the combination of nostalgia, quality and the different genre's and time-periods of the songs, which all fit perfectly with the mood around the end of the millennium. 
Because of the success of the first broadcast, Radio 2 decided to make the program an annual happening, and each succeeding year the success of the Top 2000 has increased. Since its first broadcast, the program has been the most-listened-to program in the whole of the Netherlands. During the course of the broadcast in 2005, 6,2 million different people have listened to it. This is a huge number, considering that the total population of the Netherlands is about 16,4 million. Polls taken in 2006 showed that at least 9,2 people were planning to listen to the show.

In the years following 1999, the choice of songs for the top 2000 has been expanding rapidly through a new internet voting system where people could propose a new song to be added to the choice-list.

In 2002 a television show was added to the Top 2000, called the Top 2000 a Go-Go, which shows clips of parts of the list, along with interviews and other items. In 2005 the six parts of the show were watched by approximately 7,2 million people 

Since 2003, Radio 2, along with NPS, a public TV-broadcaster, has been organizing the Top 2000 in concert, where famous Dutch artists are invited to sing one of their favorite songs, along with one of their own songs. The concert is usually broadcast on New Year's Eve, right after the top 2000 has ended. The 2005 version was watched by about 3,9 million people.

2005.
In 2005, after 6 years, the Top 2005 received a new number 1. "Avond" by Boudewijn de Groot rose unexpectedly from the fifth place to the first place, driving the usual number 1, "Bohemian Rhapsody" by Queen, to the second place.

Apart from the new number 1, the 2005 list featured a number of other improvements. During the voting, people could now add one song that was not in the list of songs to choose out. This way, a number of new, but also old songs entered the Top 2000 at high places. It was wondered whether certain songs, like "Nine Million Bicycles" by Katie Melua (which had been released only a few months earlier, and entered the charts at 23rd place), deserved to be at such a high place, and if they could hold onto that place in following years.

2006.
In 2005, easily a million votes were cast in the top 2000, but in 2006 this record was shattered when 1,9 million people cast their votes for the list. After the votes were counted, it was revealed that Queen had retaken their number one position, which they had lost in 2005.

The top 10.


External links.
  Homepage of the Top 2000;
  Webstream of the Top 2000 (Windows Media);
  Top2000info (All numbers from the history of the Top 2000.);





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1167173" title="Cosmo's Cosmic Adventure" nonfiltered="58" processed="58" dbindex="450058">

Cosmo's Cosmic Adventure is a video game programmed by Todd Replogle and published by Apogee Software in 1992. It is a two-dimensional side-scrolling platform game produced for the PC platform, and features 16-color EGA graphics at 320x200 screen resolution. 

Technical implementation.
The game's technology at the time was comparable and in direct competition with that of Nintendo's Super Mario Brothers 3 for the NES (which was released several years prior, but was still selling well at the time). Although Cosmo contained superior graphics capabilities in the form of three-layer masked horizontal parallax scrolling, this feature came at the cost of the game's frame rate. A file contained with the shareware version of the game urged people not to download it if their computers could not handle it.

 Story .
The storyline, intended for smaller children, is about a little alien boy named "Cosmo". Cosmo's parents are taking him to Disney World for his birthday. A comet hits their ship, forcing them to land on an unknown planet and repair the ship. Cosmo goes exploring, and when he returns, his parents are missing. Seeing large footprints, Cosmo thinks that his parents have been captured and sets off to rescue them before they are eaten. There are 3 episodes in the game series in which Cosmo must navigate through either 10 or 11 alien-themed levels.
 
 Endings .



At the end of the first episode, Cosmo unexpectedly gets swallowed by a large alligator-like creature. The story continues in the second episode, where Cosmo ends up in the creature's body and has to find a way out. At the end of the second episode, Cosmo finds the city where he thinks his parents might have been taken. In the final episode, Cosmo finds his parents and has a great time at Disney World for his birthday.



Gameplay.
Enemies and characters.
Many of these are not referred to by any name in the game, and are mentioned here by their appearance.

 Cosmo: The main character in the game, that the player controls around the levels. A special ability of Cosmo's is that his hands are like large suction cups. This allows him to hang onto certain surfaces, although he has a lot of trouble with icy surfaces because they're too slippery for Cosmo to have a firm cling to.
 Eye Plants: Pink stalks that have an eye growing in place of a flower. They appear on the ceiling or floor of a level. If you bomb an eye stalk, you'll get a free bomb returned to you, and if you bomb 15 eye stalks in one level, you will get 50000 points.
 Red aliens that you encounter during your travels, usually in habitable levels. They hurt Cosmo by biting him.
 Blue aliens that usually fall from the sky. They roll about on the floor, moving towards Cosmo, and if he touches one, it will hurt him.
 Aliens that have the look of a bird's head and shoot colorful bullets that can hurt Cosmo.
 Little birds that appear in most of the levels. These fly back and forth trying to peck at Cosmo.
 Worm: These are pink slug-like alien that appears every so often, sometimes from a box that is red with warning stripes (yellow and black) in the middle. It is harmless until you step on it and touch the bubbling puddle it leaves behind.
 Clam Plant: Just like the name suggests, these plants open and close every few seconds. Cosmo is hurt if he touches one when it is open.
 Ghosts that can hurt Cosmo but only advance towards him when his back is turned. They are similar to the Boo character of the Super Mario video game series.
 Robots that appears mostly in the levels of the series that have to do with electronics. The robots shoot bullets.
 Humanoid robots that are only faintly visible. If Cosmo jumps on one three times, it will become visible, and the fourth jump defeats it.
 Plant-like enemies that jump toward Cosmo when he is not looking.
 Plants that bite at you when you walk or jump over it. ;
 Robots with high energy laser beams that shoot upwards.
 Blue plants that grow out of walls and its head spits out a colorful bullet every so often.



 Zonk: The blue alien that you see at the "One Moment..." loading screen when you start the game, and the alien that helped Cosmo's parents to safety as later shown in Episode Three. Originally this was going to be Cosmo's name.
 Duke Nukem: Duke Nukem is found on Level 7, Episode 2 encased in a block of ice. You can bomb the ice to release him, in which case he will give you a cheeseburger (which increases Cosmo's health capacity). He refuses to help Cosmo as he is on a mission (to save the galaxy), but tells Cosmo to watch out for his next game: Duke Nukem II. In earlier versions of the game, Duke's name is displayed as Duke Nukum. See Duke Nukem for more information.



Items.
 Power Up modules: These colorful atom-shaped objects are Cosmo's life force. Collecting one of these restores one health unit.
 Bombs: Bombs can blow up almost everything you encounter.
 Stars: After every two levels you have an opportunity to enter a bonus stage, depending on the number of stars you collected during the levels. Reaching twenty-five stars gets you into one bonus stage; reaching fifty gets you into a different one.
 Hovercraft: allows Cosmo to fly.
 Shield: This cube breaks open and provides a temporary invincibility shield for Cosmo if he touches one.
 Hint Globes: Globules that are held up by a harmless bolt of electricity. These cause a message to be displayed if Cosmo runs into one. Blowing Hint Globes up will give Cosmo 12800 points.



 Cheeseburger: These add one empty health point to your health meter.
 One of them is hidden in Level 5, Episode 1 behind a wall inside a USA Earth satellite.
 Another is hidden in a crate at the end of Level 9, Episode 1.
 One is given to you if you free Duke Nukem in Level 7, Episode 2.
 Another is hidden in Level 9, Episode 2. It is to the far right, just below the exit, in a secret area. Cosmo reaches it by climbing down a wall a bit before.
 In Level 1, Episode 3, there is another in a crate near the start of the level, on top of a plant that raises and lowers.
 There is another in Level 8, Episode 3, but a red door blocks your way. The only way to get it is to find a red switch, which is hidden among flames.



 External links .
 Official Cosmo website;
;
 Cosmic Caverns - A fansite for the Cosmo's Cosmic Adventures game series;
 NewCosmo3: A complete additional episode - Requires the registered version;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4366012" title="Cessna 406" nonfiltered="59" processed="59" dbindex="450059">

The Reims-Cessna 406 Caravan II is a twin turboprop aircraft manufactured and designed by Reims Aviation in France in cooperation with Cessna. It is essentially a Cessna 404 with two Pratt & Whitney PT-6 turboprop engines and therefore similar to the pressurized Cessna 441. The aircraft first flew in 1983 and is still produced by Reims Aviation, which is now a private French aircraft manufacturer after buying back the shares held by Cessna in 1989.

The 406 is aimed at passenger and small cargo transport and civilian and military surveillance. For extra cargo capacity a cargo pod can be fitted to the belly of the aircraft. The Surpolmar is recent a maritime surveillance version of the aircraft with extra equipment such as a 360 degrees radar. 

Though the two engines make it more expensive to operate as similar aircraft such as the single-engined Cessna 208 Caravan, having two engines does make the aircraft more reliable, which is especially important when flying over rugged terrain or over water. 

Specifications.
General characteristics.
 Crew: 1/2 pilots ;
 Capacity: 12 passengers;
 Powerplant: 2x Pratt & Whitney PT6A-112 turboprop, 500hp each;
 Length: 11,89m;
 Wing span: 15,08m ;
 Height: 401m;
 Empty weight: 4.502kg;

Performance.
 Range: 2200km full fuel, 790km full passengers;
 Cruise speed: 400km/h;
 Top speed: 455km/h;
 Service ceiling: 9.145m (30.000ft);

External links.
 Reims Aviation (official website);
 Airliners.net - photos of the Reims F406;

Related content.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1111284" title="Arbetarkommun" nonfiltered="60" processed="60" dbindex="450060">
Arbetarkommun alt. Arbetarekommun (Labour Commune) is the municipal unit of Sveriges Socialdemokratiska Arbetareparti (Social Democratic Labour Party of Sweden). An arbetarkommun consists of several base level party units, workplace units, etc.

Historically the term had been used also by other socialist parties in Sweden. The Communist Party (SKP and later VPK), had a municipal units called Kommunistiska Arbetarkommuner (KAK, Communist Labour Communes). The break-away Arbetarpartiet Kommunisterna (Workers Party - Communists) and the revived SKP started by them has continued to call their local units KAKs.

The Socialistiska Partiet (Socialist Party) of Karl Kilbom and Nils Flyg had municipal units called Socialistiska Arbetarkommuner.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2581960" title="Eggjet" nonfiltered="61" processed="61" dbindex="450061">
 
Eggjet is a brand of printers that use inkjet technology to print data onto egg shells. Typical information printed includes best before dates and brand name logos. Eggjet printers are usually set to print a maximum of five lines of information, though the exact number can be altered by setting electronic switches. The system was first designed by the Sorveh Company of Canada.

External links.
Sorveh;
Xaar;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7940757" title="Capital Department, Catamarca" nonfiltered="62" processed="62" dbindex="450062">


Capital is a  department of Catamarca Province in Argentina.

The provincial subdivision has a population of about 141,000 inhabitants in an area of  684km\B2, and its capital city is San Fernando del Valle de Catamarca, which is located around 1,145km from Capital Federal.

Districts.

Bajo Hondo;
El Calvario;
El Carrizal;
El Pantanillo;
La Aguada;
La Calera;
La Sombrilla;
La Vi\F1ita;
Loma Cortada;
Pto.Fern\E1ndez;
San Fernando del Valle de Catamarca;

External links.

Capital webpage (Spanish);

San Fernando de Valle Website (Spanish);






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="132914" title="Enon Valley, Pennsylvania" nonfiltered="63" processed="63" dbindex="450063">
Enon Valley is a borough in Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 387 at the 2000 census.

Geography.
Enon Valley is located at  (40.856310, -80.456192).

According to the United States Census Bureau, the borough has a total area of 1.3 km\B2 (0.5 mi\B2), all land.

Demographics.
As of the census of 2000, there were 387 people, 138 households, and 105 families residing in the borough. The population density was 287.3/km\B2 (746.5/mi\B2). There were 149 housing units at an average density of 110.6/km\B2 (287.4/mi\B2). The racial makeup of the borough was 98.71% White, 0.52% African American, 0.52% Asian, and 0.26% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.78% of the population.

There were 138 households out of which 36.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 63.8% were married couples living together, 6.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 23.9% were non-families. 20.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 6.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.80 and the average family size was 3.23.

In the borough the population was spread out with 25.6% under the age of 18, 9.0% from 18 to 24, 29.5% from 25 to 44, 22.5% from 45 to 64, and 13.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females there were 97.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 104.3 males.

The median income for a household in the borough was $38,417, and the median income for a family was $39,167. Males had a median income of $32,083 versus $14,375 for females. The per capita income for the borough was $23,161. None of the families and 2.9% of the population were living below the poverty line, including no under eighteens and none of those over 64.

Fast Facts.
Enon Valley means "Valley Of Many Waters".

Enon Valley was the setting for some of the scenes in the 1996 Farrelly brothers movie Kingpin.

External links.





]
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="56125" title="Sioux" nonfiltered="64" processed="64" dbindex="450064">





The Sioux (IPA ) are a Native American people. The term can describe any ethnic group within the Great Sioux Nation or any of the nation's many dialects.  The Sioux are often divided into three main groups based on dialect and subculture:
Teton (translation uncertain): the westernmost Sioux known for their hunting and warrior culture. Often referred to as the Lakota.
Isanti ("Knife," originating from the name of a lake in present-day Minnesota): the extreme east of the Dakotas, Minnesota, and northern Iowa.  Often referred to as the Santee or Dakota.
Ihanktowan-Ihanktowana ("Village-at-the-end" and "little village-at-the-end") respectively.  Often referred to as the Yankton-Yanktonai or Nakota.

 Oceti Sakowin .

Today it is popular to refer to the Teton, Isanti, or Ihanktowan/Ihanktowana as either Lakota (otherwise known as the Sioux), Dakota, or Nakota respectively.  In any of the three main dialects, "Lakota, Dakota, and Nakota" all translate to mean "friend," or more properly, "ally".  Usage of either Lakota, Dakota, or Nakota may then refer to the alliance that once bound the Great Sioux Nation together.  The historical Sioux referred to the Great Sioux Nation as the Oceti Sakowin, meaning "Seven Council Fires".  Each fire represented an oyate (ethnic groups or nation of people).  The seven nations that comprise the Sioux are:
Mdewakanton, Wahpetowan (Wahpeton), Wahpekute, Sissetowan (Sisseton), the Ihantowan (Yankton), Ihanktowana (Yanktonai), and the Teton (Lakota).  The first four comprise the main branches of the Isanti (Santee or Dakota).

The name "Sioux" is an abbreviated form of Nadouessioux borrowed into French Canadian from Nado\FCessio\FCak from the early Ottawa exonym: na towe ssiwak "Sioux". The Proto-Algonquian form *n tow wa meaning "Northern Iroquoian" has reflexes in several daughter languages that refer to a small rattlesnake (massasauga, Sistrurus). This information was interpreted by some that the Ottawa borrowing was an insult. However, this proto-Algonquian term most likely is ultimately derived from a form *- tow  meaning simply "speak foreign language", which was later extended in meaning in some Algonquian languages to refer to the massasauga. Thus, contrary to many accounts, the Ottawa word na towe ssiwak never equated the Sioux with snakes.

Today, many of the ethnic groups continue to officially call themselves "Sioux", which the Federal Government of the United States applied to all Yankton/Yanktonai/Santee/Lakota people in the 19th and 20th centuries. However, some of the tribes have formally or informally adopted traditional names: the Rosebud Sioux Tribe is also known as the Sicangu Oyate (Brule Nation), and the Oglala often use the name Oglala Lakota Oyate, rather than the English "Oglala Sioux Tribe" or OST. (The alternative English spelling of Ogallala is not considered proper.)

The earlier linguistic 3-way division of the Dakotan branch of the Siouan family identified Lakota, Dakota, and Nakota as dialects of a single language, where Lakota = Teton, Dakota = Santee and Yankton, Nakota = Yanktonai & Assiniboine.  This classification was based in large part on each group's particular pronunciation of the autonym Dakh\F3ta-Lakh\F3ta-Nakh\F3ta. However, more recent research has shown that Assiniboine (and also Stoney) are not mutually intelligible with the Sioux groups, while the Yankton-Yanktonai, Santee, and Teton groups all spoke mutually intelligible varieties of a Sioux idiom. This more recent classification identifies Assiniboine and Stoney as two separate languages with Sioux being the third language that has three similar dialects: Teton, Santee-Sisseton, Yankton-Yanktonai. Furthermore, the Yankton-Yanktonai never referred to themselves using the pronunciation Nakh\F3ta but rather pronounced it the same as the Santee (i.e. Dakh\F3ta). (Assiniboine and Stoney speakers use the pronunciation Nakh\F3ta or Nakh\F3da.)

The term Dakota has also been applied by anthropologists and governmental departments to refer to all Sioux groups, resulting in names such as Teton Dakota, Santee Dakota, etc. This was due in large part to the misrepresented translation of the Ottawa word from which Sioux is derived (supposedly meaning "snake", see above).

Modern geographic divisions.
The Sioux maintain many separate tribal governments scattered across several reservations and communities in the Dakotas, Minnesota, Nebraska, and even Canada (southern Saskatchewan and Manitoba).

The Yankton-Yanktonai, the smallest division, reside on the Yankton reservation in South Dakota and the Northern portion of Standing Rock Reservation, while the Santee live mostly in Minnesota and Nebraska, but include bands in the Sisseton-Wahpeton, Flandreau, and Crow Creek Reservations in South Dakota. The Lakota are the westernmost of the three groups, occupying lands in both North and South Dakota. 

Yankton-Yanktonai (Nakota).
The Yankton-Yanktonai are a branch of Sioux peoples who moved into northern Minnesota. They originally constituted of two main ethnic groups: the Yankton ("campers at the end") and Yanktonai ("lesser campers at the end"). Economically, they were involved in quarrying pipestone.


It should be remembered that the 'divisions' of the old political organization of the Dakota Nations, collectively referred to as the Seven Council Fires, or O \E9ti  ak\F3wi , is used to index the entire Dakota collective.  The word koda in Dakota (and kola in Lakota for example) means  friend  or  ally.   Therefore,  Dakota means an alliance of friends.  The root word is frequently come upon in the Siouan language, as in okodakiciye, meaning society, association, republic.  The tribe consists of seven bands closely related, springing from one parent stock  and still joined in alliance for mutual protection  (Doane Robinson 1904 :19).

The three 'divisions' are somewhat arbitrary and are based primarily on relatively minor dialectical differences; there are many kinship ties throughout the three groups, since these 'groups' were historically (and are probably today as well) much more fluid than discrete. Furthermore, due to land expropriation and massive social upheavals caused by the "Dakota-U.S. Wars" (circa 1862-1890), some members of all three groups fled to Rupert's Land, later the Northwest Territories of Canada (est. 1870).  Their descendants reside on eight small Dakota Reserves in Canada, four of which are located in Manitoba (Sioux Valley, Long Plain Tipi, Birdtail Creek, and Oak Lake ) and the remaining four (Standing Buffalo, Moose Woods Cap, Round Plain , and Wood Mountain) in Saskatchewan.



 Santee (Dakota) .
The Santee people migrated north and westward from the south and east into Ohio then to Minnesota.  The Santee Dakota were a woodland people who thrived on hunting, fishing and subsistence farming. Migrations of Anishinaabe/Chippewa people from the east in the 17th and 18th centuries, with muskets supplied by the French and English, pushed the Santee further into Minnesota and west and southward, giving the name "Dakotas Territory" to the northern expanse west of the Mississippi and up to its headwaters. The western Santee obtained horses, probably in the 17th century (although some historians date the arrival of horses in South Dakota to 1720), and moved further west, onto the Great Plains, becoming the Titonwan tribe, subsisting on the buffalo herds and corn-trade with their linguistic cousins, the Mandan and Hidatsa along the Missouri. Because the western bands of the Sioux find their origins in the east, the linguistical dialect of the Eastern Santee Dakota has come to be called the "Mother Dialect", or the originating dialect of the D/N/Lakota language.

 Teton (Lakota) .

The Santee people migrated north and westward from the south and east into Ohio then to Minnesota. The Santee were a woodland people who thrived on hunting, fishing and subsistence farming. Migrations of Anishinaabe/Chippewa people from the east in the 17th and 18th centuries, with muskets supplied by the French and British, pushed the Santee further into Minnesota and west and southward, giving the name "Dakota Territory" to the northern expanse west of the Mississippi and up to its headwaters. The western Santee obtained horses, probably in the 17th century (although some historians date the arrival of horses in South Dakota to 1720), and moved further west, onto the Great Plains, becoming the Titonwan tribe, subsisting on the buffalo herds and corn-trade with their linguistic cousins, the Mandan and Hidatsa along the   Missouri.

The clash of Sioux and white cultures.
The Appearance of the Sioux from the Eyes of a White Explorer of the Nineteenth Century. 

According to the journal kept by Jedediah Strong Smith, the fur-trapper, hunter and explorer who effectively opened up the West for later white settlement and gold prospecting, as reported by author Maurice Sullivan: 

 "...When he first saw the proud Sioux... who as Diah observed, were rovers... their intelligence, superior morals, stature and manner of living...such that here, in the Sioux nation, aboriginal life was most attractive." (pp. 16, 17) "The distant appearance of these lodges, when many Indians are encamped together, cannot fail of pleasing. Clustered together with their yellow sides and painted tops, the children playing around in the intervals between them, the men going out or coming in from hunting, the horses feeding on the neighboring prairie, the dogs sleeping or playing in the sun or shade, the squaws at their several labors, and the boys at their several sports--these, taken in conjunction with a beautiful mingling of prairie and woodland, or some undulation of the land, or some bend of the great River that brings them all at once to view, and above all, eyes that are not accustomed to such a sight, would almost persuade a man to renounce the world, take the lodge, and live the careless, lazy life of an Indian!" (p. 16) "The lodges of the Sioux, he recorded, were gaudily decorated with paintings of the buffalo hunt, battles and other events of historical importance to the occupants. Outside a warrior's lodge, on a tripod made of decorated poles, was hung the medicine sack of the owner, and over the sack a piece of scarlet blanket or the skin of a white wolf. ;
 Within, the squaw was busy with her household labors, while the master of the lodge was seated, 'leaning back, with no borrowed dignity', against a mat made of peeled willows supported by a tripod of sticks....In the moral scale, as their appearance would indicate, they rank above the mass of Indians." (p. 17) (see Bibliography below) Such was the approving opinion of at least one white mountain man of the time and indeed, many of these mountain men attempted to live in some fashion among the 'Indians'.

Forced Relocation of the Sioux by the United States Government. 

Later in the 19th century, as the railroads hired hunters to exterminate the buffalo herds, the Indians' primary food supply, in order to force all tribes into sedentary habitations, the Santee and Lakota were forced to accept white-defined reservations in exchange for the rest of their lands, and domestic cattle and corn in exchange for buffalo, becoming dependent upon annual federal payments guaranteed by treaty.  In Minnesota, the treaties of Traverse des Sioux and Mendota in 1851 left the Sioux with a reservation twenty miles wide on each side of the Minnesota River.

The 1862 Sioux Uprising. 

In 1862, after a failed crop the year before and a winter starvation, the federal payment was late to arrive. The local traders would not issue any more credit to the Santee and the local federal agent told the Santee that they were 'free to eat grass or their own dung'. As a result, on August 17, 1862 the Sioux Uprising began when a few Santee men murdered a white farmer and most of his family, igniting further attacks on white settlements along the Minnesota River. The Santee then attacked the trading post, and the federal agent was later found dead with his mouth stuffed full of grass. No one knows the exact number but between 500 to 1000 civilian men, women, and children, mostly German immigrants, were massacred until state and federal forces put down the revolt . Courts-martial tried and condemned 303 Santee for 'war crimes'. Numerous first-hand accounts describe rapes and murders of the whites by the Santee. (Relatively recently published are the first hand accounts of two German-American women who describe the murders they observed of family and friends.) 
On November 5, 1862 in Minnesota, in courts-martial, 303 Santee Sioux were found guilty of rape and murder of hundreds of white farmers and were sentenced to hang. President Abraham Lincoln remanded the death sentence of 284 of the warriors, signing off on the execution of 38 Santee men by hanging on December 26, 1862 in Mankato, Minnesota, the largest mass-execution in US history. 

During and after the revolt, many Santee and their kin fled Minnesota and Eastern Dakota, joining their relatives in the West, or settling in the James River Valley in a short-lived reservation before being forced to move to Crow Creek Reservation on the east bank of the Missouri. Others were able to remain in Minnesota and the east, in small reservations existing into the 21st Century, including Sisseton-Wahpeton, Flandreau, and Devils Lake (Spirit Lake or Fort Totten) Reservations in the Dakotas. Some ended up eventually in Nebraska, where the Santee Sioux Tribe today has a reservation on the south bank of the Missouri.

Ethnic divisions.
The Sioux are divided into ethnic groups, the larger of which are divided into sub-groups, and further branched into bands. 

 Santee division ;
 Mdewakantonwan ;
 Sisitonwan (Sisseton) ;
 Wahpekute ;
 Wahpetonwan ;
 Yankton-Yanktonai ;
 Ihanktonwan (Yankton, "End Village") ;
 Ihanktonwana (Yanktonai, "Little End Village") ;
 Stoney (Canada) ;
 Assiniboine (Canada) ;

 Lakota (Teton) ;
 Oglala ("Those who Scatter their own") ;
 notable persons: Crazy Horse, Red Cloud, Black Elk and Billy Mills (Olympian) ;
 Hunkpapa (meaning "Those who Camp by the Door" or "Wanderers") ;
 notable persons: Sitting Bull ;
 Sihasapa (not to confuse with the Algonquian-speaking Blackfeet) ;
 Minniconjou ("Those who Plant by the Stream") ;
 Si angu (French: Brul\E9) ("Burnt Thighs") ;
 Itazipacola (French: Sans Arcs "Without Bows") ;
 Oohenonpa ("Two Kettles" or "Two Boilings");

 Reservations .
Today, one half of all Enrolled Sioux live off the Reservation.

Sioux reservations established by the US government include:

 Oglala (Pine Ridge Indian Reservation) ;
 Si angu (Rosebud Indian Reservation) ;
 Hunkpapa (Standing Rock Indian Reservation/Cheyenne River Indian Reservation) ;
 Minniconjou (Cheyenne River Indian Reservation) ;
 Sans Arc (Cheyenne River Indian Reservation) ;
 Two Kettles (Cheyenne River Indian Reservation);
 Crow Creek Indian Reservation;
 Lower Brule Indian Reservation;
 Santee Indian Reservation;
 Yanktonai (Yankton Sioux Indian Reservation);
 Flandreau Indian Reservation;
 Lake Traverse Indian Reservation (Sisseton-Wahpehton);
 Lower Sioux;
 Upper Sioux;
 Shakopee-Mdewakanton;
 Prairie Island;
 Standing Rock Indian Reservation;
 Spirit Lake Tribe (Formerly Devil's Lake Reservation);

 Derived names .
The U.S. states of North Dakota and South Dakota are named after the Dakota tribe.  One other U.S. state has a name of Siouan origin: Minnesota is named from mni ("water") plus sota ("hazy/smoky, not clear"), and the name Nebraska comes from the related Chiwere language. Furthermore, the states Kansas, Iowa, and Missouri are named for cousin Siouan tribes, the Kansa, Iowa, and Missouri, respectively, as are the cities Omaha, Nebraska and Ponca City, Oklahoma. The names vividly demonstrate the wide dispersion of the Siouan peoples across the Midwest U.S.

More directly, several Midwestern municipalities utilize Sioux in their names, including Sioux City (IA), Sioux Center (IA) and Sioux Falls (SD).  Midwestern rivers include the Little Sioux River in Iowa and Big Sioux River along the Iowa/South Dakota border.

Many smaller towns and geographic features in the Northern Plains retain their Sioux names or bear English translations of those names, including Wasta, Owanka, Oacoma, Rapid City (Mne luza: "cataract" or "rapids"), Sioux Falls/Minnehaha county (Mne haha: "waterfall"), Belle Fourche (Mniwasta, or "Good water"), Inyan Kara, Sisseton (Sissetowan: tribal name, origin uncertain), Winona ("first daughter"), etc.

Frontwoman Siouxsie Sioux of the postpunk band Siouxsie and the Banshees also derived her stage name from the "Sioux".

Media.




The films Dances With Wolves and Thunderheart contain depictions of the Sioux Indians.

"Elegy to the Sioux," a poem by Norman Dubie;

Famous Sioux.
Historical.
Taoyateduta (Little Crow) - Chief famous for role in Sioux Uprising;
 Tatanka Iyotake (Sitting Bull) - Chief famous for role in the Battle of Little Bighorn;
Tasunka Witko (Crazy Horse) - Famous for leadership and courage in battle;
Charles Eastman;
Colonel Gregory "Pappy" Boyington, World War II Fighter Ace and Medal of Honor recipient; 1/4 Sioux;

Contemporary.
Robert "Tree" Cody, Native American flutist (Dakota);
Elizabeth Cook-Lynn, activist, academic, and writer;
Mary Crow Dog;
Vine Deloria, Jr., activist and essayist;
Charles Eastman (Ohiyesa) - Author, physician and political reformer.
Indigenous, blues band (Nakota);
Illinois Jacquet, jazz saxophonist (half Sioux and half African American);
Russell Means, activist (Oglala);
Eddie Spears, actor (Lakota Sioux Lower Brule);
Michael Spears, actor (Lakota Sioux Lower Brule);
John Trudell, actor;
Floyd Red Crow Westerman, singer and actor (Dakota);

 See also .
 Sioux language;
 Great Sioux Nation;
 Sioux Uprising;
 Sioux Wars;

 External links .
 Dakota Blues: The History of The Great Sioux Nation;
 The Yanktonai (Edward S. Curtis);
Lakota Language Consortium;
Winter Counts a Smithsonian exhibit of the annual icon chosen to represent the major event of the past year;
Rosebud Indian Reservation Land of the Sicangu Lakota Oyate;
Dakota Language and Culture Encyclopedia;

Bibliography.
 Albers, Patricia C. (2001). Santee. In R. J. DeMallie (Ed.), Handbook of North American Indians: Plains (Vol. 13, Part 2, pp. 761-776). W. C. Sturtevant (Gen. Ed.). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution. ISBN 0-16-050400-7.
 Christafferson, Dennis M. (2001). Sioux, 1930-2000. In Handbook of North American Indians: Plains (Vol. 13, Part 2, pp. 821-839). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
 Cox, Hank H. (2005). Lincoln and the Sioux Uprising of 1862. Nashville, TN: Cumberland House. ISBN 1-58182-457-2.
 DeMallie, Raymond J. (2001a). Sioux until 1850. In Handbook of North American Indians: Plains (Vol. 13, Part 2, pp. 718-760). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
 DeMallie, Raymond J. (2001b). Teton. In Handbook of North American Indians: Plains (Vol. 13, Part 2, pp. 794-820). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
 DeMallie, Raymond J. (2001c). Yankton and Yanktonai. In Handbook of North American Indians: Plains (Vol. 13, Part 2, pp. 777-793). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
 DeMallie, Raymond J.; & Miller, David R. (2001). Assiniboine. In Handbook of North American Indians: Plains (Vol. 13, Part 1, pp. 572-595). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
 Getty, Ian A. L.; & Gooding, Erik D. (2001). Stoney. In Handbook of North American Indians: Plains (Vol. 13, Part 1, pp. 596-603). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
 Hein, David (Advent 2002). "Episcopalianism among the Lakota / Dakota Indians of South Dakota." The Historiographer, vol. 40, pp. 14-16. Historiographer is a publication of the Historical Society of the Episcopal Church and the National Episcopal Historians and Archivists. ;
 Hein, David (1997). "Christianity and Traditional Lakota / Dakota Spirituality: A Jamesian Interpretation." The McNeese Review, vol. 35, pp. 128-38. ;
 Parks, Douglas R.; & Rankin, Robert L. (2001). The Siouan languages. In Handbook of North American Indians: Plains (Vol. 13, Part 1, pp. 94-114). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
 Sullivan, Maurice S.: "Jedediah Smith, Trader and Trail Breaker", New York Press of the Pioneers (1936) contains 'politically incorrect' white man's terminology and stereotypical attitudes toward the 'Indians'.
 Robert M. Utley, "The Last Days of the Sioux Nation" (Yale University, 1963) ISBN 0-300-00245-9;



























ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6169444" title="Mohammed Amzzyan" nonfiltered="65" processed="65" dbindex="450065">
 
Mohand Amzzyan (Berber language:) also: (Sherif Mohammed Amzzyan or Mohamed Amezian) was a leader of the Moroccan Rif (North Eastern Morocco) resistance against the Spanish occupation of Northern Morocco. His operations and wars took place in the Eastern Rif region especially in the current Nador province.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="140570" title="Access query language" nonfiltered="66" processed="66" dbindex="450066">
Access, the successor to ENGLISH, is an English-like query language used in the Pick operating system.

The original name ENGLISH is something of a misnomer, as PICK's flexible dictionary structure meant that file and attribute names could be given aliases in any natural language. For instance the command SORT could be given the alias TRIEZ, the file CUSTOMER the alias CLIENT, the attribute BALANCE the alias BILAN and the particle BY the alias PAR. This would allow the database to be interrogated using the French-language command string "TRIEZ CLIENT PAR BILAN", resulting in a list of customers by balance.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4739013" title="My Trace Route" nonfiltered="67" processed="67" dbindex="450067">
My Traceroute (former Matt's Traceroute), or mtr, combines the functionality of the traceroute and ping programs in a single network diagnostic tool. Like usual traceroute tools, mtr will probe routers on the route path by limiting the number of hops individual packets may traverse, and listening to responses of their expiry. It will repeat this process every interval, usually once per second, and keep track of the reponse times of the hops along the path.

 Software .

On modern Unix and Linux-based operating systems, the GNU GPL licensed mtr software is made available.  
In Microsoft Windows, a new utility, pathping, was introduced with Windows NT, combining ping and traceroute functionality in a somewhat similar way.
All these traceroute tools rely on ICMP Time Exceeded (type 11) packets coming back from routers, or ICMP Echo Reply packets when the packets have hit their destination host.

 Example .


                         Matt's traceroute  
source-host.mydomain.com                           Thu Apr 13 16:06:54 2006
Keys:  D - Display mode    R - Restart statistics    Q - Quit
                                       Packets               Pings
Hostname                            %Loss  Rcv  Snt  Last Best  Avg  Worst
 1. hop1.mydomain.com                  0%   11   11     1    1    1      2
 2. ae-31-51.ebr1.Chicago1.Level3.n   19%    9   11     3    1    7     14
 3. ae-1.ebr2.Chicago1.Level3.net      0%   11   11     7    1    7     14
 4. ae-2.ebr2.Washington1.Level3.ne   19%    9   11    19   18   23     31
 5. ae-1.ebr1.Washington1.Level3.ne   28%    8   11    22   18   24     30
 6. ge-3-0-0-53.gar1.Washington1.Le    0%   11   11    18   18   20     36
 7. 63.210.29.230                      0%   10   10    19   19   19     19
 8. t-3-1.bas1.re2.yahoo.com           0%   10   10    19   18   32    106
 9. p25.www.re2.yahoo.com              0%   10   10    19   18   19     19


 Origins .

The mtr manual page states that the original mtr program was written by Matt Kimball with contributions by many people. Take a look at the "AUTHORS" file in the distribution. Roger Wolff took over maintenance of mtr in october 1998.

 Uses .

mtr is often used for network troubleshooting.  By showing a list of routers traversed, and the average round-trip time as well as packet loss to each router, it allows the user to identify links between two particular routers responsible for certain fractions of the overall latency or packet loss through the network. This can help identify network over utilization problems.

 See also .

 Traceroute;
 Ping;

 External links .

 MTR, BitWizard's MTR page with Unix downloads.
 WinMTR, a GUI compilation of mtr for Microsoft Windows OS's. ;
 traceroute.org   Monthly updated list of online traceroutes;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5089123" title="Hammarbyh\F6jden" nonfiltered="68" processed="68" dbindex="450068">
Hammarbyh\F6jden is district in Stockholm that was built in the 1930s. The  subway station here was opened in 1958. 

See also.
Hammarby;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6539561" title="Fort King" nonfiltered="69" processed="69" dbindex="450069">


Fort King (also known as Camp King or Cantonment King) was a United States military fort in north central Florida. It was named after Colonel William King, commander of Florida's Fourth Infantry and the first governor of the provisional West Florida region. The fort was built in 1827, and became the genesis of the city of Ocala. Located near the corner of East Fort King Street and 39th Avenue in Ocala, the site is a U.S. National Historic Landmark (designated as such on February 24, 2004).

History.
Prehistory.
Archaeological investigations have indicated that the area was inhabited prior to the arrival of the white man in the area. At least two periods of occupation have been identified: between 6500 and 2000 B.C., and 200 to 1500 A.D.

The fort.
Fort King was constructed in 1827 as a buffer between the Seminoles (to the south in the Moultrie Creek Treaty reservation area) and whites settling in the region. It sat at the nexus of a system of military roads. From the fort, one could travel easily (for the era) to Fort Brooks (near Orange Springs), Fort McCoy, a ford at the St. Johns River which would become the town of Astor, Palatka, Jacksonville, and Fort Brooke (on Tampa Bay, to name but a few. It fell into disuse after 1829.

In 1832, the fort was active again to help in the relocation of the Seminoles westward as part of the Treaty of Payne's Landing. The Second Seminole War, beginning in 1835, made the fort one of the most important during the next seven years, due to its strategic location. Abandoned for nearly a year between mid-1836 to early 1837 after the Seminoles burned it, the fort still remained mostly in use until the war's end in 1842.
After the founding of Marion County, the fort became its first courthouse in 1844. Eventually, though, the building was abandoned for the last time, and the fort deconstructed to provide building material for the early residents.
Recent.
Today there are no signs of the fort. Two historical markers exist, one marking the approximate location of the fort itself, the other at the cemetery for it. Some of the area is publicly owned, and some is private.

External links.
 Marion County listings at National Register of Historic Places;
 Fort King Site at National Historic Landmarks Program;
 Marion County markers at Florida's Office of Cultural and Historical Programs;
 About Marion County at Marion County Board of County Commissioners;
 Explore Marion County Cities - Ocala at Ocala, Marion County Chamber of Commerce;
 Ocala Star Banner ;
 Archaeologists digging up Fort King's past;
 Fort King built to keep Whites and Seminoles from fighting;
 Marion County History's Silent Sentinel - Fort King;
 70 Years later, Fort King Marker rededicated;
 Florida's "Crossroads";
 Fort King site selected for national protection;
 Marion County, Part 2 - Fort King and Fort Drane at The Florida Seminole War 1792-1859;
 Florida Forts at American Forts Network;













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1639919" title="George Taylor Denison III" nonfiltered="70" processed="70" dbindex="450070">


George Taylor Denison III (31 August 1839   1925) was a Canadian soldier and publicist.

He was born in Toronto, and educated at Upper Canada College. In 1861 he was called to the bar, and was from 1865-1867 a member of the city council. From the first he took a prominent part in the organization of the military forces of Canada, becoming a lieutenant-colonel in the active militia in 1866. He saw active service during the Fenian raids of 1866, and during the North-West Rebellion of 1885.

Owing to his dissatisfaction with the conduct of the Conservative ministry during the Red River Rebellion in 1869-70, he abandoned that party, and in 1872 unsuccessfully contested Algoma in the Liberal interest. Thereafter he remained free from party ties. In 1877 he was appointed police magistrate of Toronto. 

Colonel Denison was one of the founders of the Canada First movement, which did much to shape the national aspirations from 1870 to 1878, and was a consistent supporter of imperial federation and of preferential trade between Great Britain and her colonies. He became a member of the Royal Society of Canada, and was president of the section dealing with English history and literature. The best known of his military works is his History of Modern Cavalry (London, 1877), which was awarded the Czar of Russia Prize in an open competition in 1879, and has been translated into German, Russian and Japanese. It remains one of the definitive works on the subject. In 1900 he published his reminiscences under the title of Soldiering in Canada.

He was a public defender of Upper Canada College, and was also known for virulent Anti-Americanism; after a proposal was made to erect a statue of George Washington in Westminster Abbey, he threatened that if it was built he would go there to spit on it.  Following the attempts by the Fenian raiders to "liberate" Canada between 1866 and 1871, Denison claimed a Yankee sword from the battlefield and used it as a poker to use on his fire.

References.
;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4829483" title="Brickhouse Betty" nonfiltered="71" processed="71" dbindex="450071">
Brickhouse Betty is an adult cartoon character featured online on numerous popular websites, including Newgrounds and Jokaroo.  Betty is the brainchild of Rum Runners, a rum-drinking duo known only as "Sven & Angus" in the adult film and Internet world.  She is also the star of the only adult animated short to ever win an AVN Award.  The cartoon "Stormy Bangs Betty!", co-starring adult film superstar Stormy Daniels, was part of Wicked Pictures' win in 2006 for "Best DVD Extras." Brickhouse Betty.net is one of the most popular cartoon sex and porn sites in the world.

Betty started out as a feature on the Australian humor site, SexyAndFunny.com and later migrated to her own online home, BrickhouseBetty.net. Since the character's humble beginnings in 2003, her popularity has grown immensely.  The site is currently the number one free adult cartoon site in the world according to Alexa and Google Directory.  She is the modern day version of Playboy's "Little Annie Fanny" except that Betty actually does what fans always wished Annie would do. In fact, Betty cartoons are actually run on Playboy TV on the hit show "Night Calls".

Betty's Traits.
Betty is considered as the typical dumb blonde. She is kind and innocent, but is a bit dull and gullible and the men in the episodes use that to persuade her into their sexual joy. In fact, in every episode, she ends up topless, and except for the Easter Blonde episode, completely naked. Another irony is that although there are chances where Betty could hang out with a more handsome figure (for instance, JD in Irish Blonde and Lifesaver Betty episodes), in the end, it is the unattractive men who rape her.

An interview on Boites Jaunes.com reveal that she went to the University of Copenhagen, where she did a performance of "Annie Get Your Gun", and had Niels Bohr as a friend. She also knows a little about special relativity, yet does not seem to be able to do simple math. She calls herself of a "cat person". She says that she is a very good waitress, but she continuously says that she does not like leprechauns. She wants to be a beaver.

Other Characters.
 Santa: First seen in "Irish Blonde" as a bartender, but in his original form in "The Christmas Blonde 2". A jolly figure, but sometimes gets violent in front of those who rape Betty. He saves Betty on two occasions, on the latter two episodes of the Christmas episodes.

 Grandpa Slappy: First seen in "Christmas Blonde", but properly introduced in "The Vacation Blonde". His name is revealed in "The Christmas Blonde 2", when his cover is blown. He is a sex-crazy, balding old man with a cane, who raped Betty twice.

 JD: First seen in "Jungle Blonde" as a Tarzan-like man. His proper name is introduced in "Lifeguard Betty". He is a sun-tanned, attractive, hunky Australian, who makes gorilla sounds and tries to get close to Betty. He also cameos in "The Christmas Blonde 2" as a policeman who arrests Grandpa Slappy's plan to get sexual pleasure from Betty.

 Sven: First seen in "Irish Blonde", as a leprechaun who gives three wishes to Betty. His real intention was to set himself up to sexually exploit Betty by undressing her while enlarging his penis and growing himself into a hunk. Later, he is shown as a policeman in "The Christmas Blonde 2".

 Augus: First shown in "Easter Blonde", he is dressed as an Easter Bunny in a shopping mall. Seeing how attractive Betty is, he sticks his penis in a basket and introduces it to Betty as an "Easter whistle", which makes her pull orgasms on Augus.

 Frank: First shown in "Dick or Treat", Frank is a Frankenstein-like monster, who trick-or-treats in front of Betty's door. When Betty says that she is out of candy, he instead strips both of them and starts raping Betty. He also releases an excess amount of semen.

 The Puppeteer: First shown in "Christmas Blonde 3: The Snatch", he kidnaps and rapes Betty, while Betty is blinded and thinks that Santa abducted her to Sugar Plum Factory to rape her.

 Episodes .

 "'The Christmas Blonde'";
Betty is waiting for Santa to come, wearing only a red bra and red panties. Santa appears, comments "sweet Jesus" and pretends to faint. He uses a puppet to tell Betty that the only way to wake up Santa is to give him a blowjob. The episode ends as Betty wondering if she should do it.

 "'The Vacation Blonde'";
An old man called Grandpa Slappy passes by a window at a hotel. He hears orgasmic noises coming from a room and peeks in. Naked Betty is bouncing up and down on a bed. She appears to be having sex, but turns out to only be trying to close her suitcase.

 "'The Jungle Blonde'";
Betty is swinging through the jungle on a vine in a leopard bikini. A Tarzan-like man, who is revealed in later episodes to be named JD, follows and eventually grabs her. In the next scene, JD strips her and they have intercourse in several positions and then JD swings away, smoking a cigarette. A chimpanzee then makes a sexual gesture at Betty.

 "'The Irish Blonde'";
Betty is depicted as a waitress during St. Patrick's Day. She meets a leprechaun named Sven who offers three wishes. Her first is that all of the men in the tavern are interested only in her, a wish that is granted by stripping her naked. Betty screams, but everybody in the room IS interested only in her. Her second wish is a man "hung like a horse". Sven turns out to be this man, extending his penis to almost as long as he is tall, while forcing Betty into fellatio. Betty's third wish is that she wanted a hunky man, and Sven becomes hunky and naked as well. They fall over and have sex on the floor. Grandpa Slappy then says to the bartender, Santa, "I'll have what he's havin'."

 "'The Easter Blonde'";
An Easter-bunny-costumed man named Angus is working at a shopping centre. Betty appears to think he is the real bunny, and Angus takes it as a sign of stupidity. He tricks her into looking away (saying that there is a leprechaun), then punches out the bottom of the basket and sticks his penis through. He describes it as an Easter whistle and suggests she blow on it. While Betty tries it, her top falls off. When it proves to not work, he advises her to suck on it. It still doesn't work, and Betty then notes that she can't get it out of the basket. She yanks on it. Angus cums all over her, and Betty realizes what has just happened as Easter-egg patterned semen is sprayed on her breasts.

 "'Lifeguard Betty'";
Betty works as a lifeguard along with JD. JD asks her for a mouth-to-mouth, which she says is only for drowning people. Grandpa Slappy overhears this and pretends to drown. Betty runs down the beach towards him, Baywatch-style. Her bikini comes off in the process, leaving her completely naked, and she gives him mouth to mouth among other types of CPR. He gets an erection which bursts through his shorts and into Betty's anus.

 "'The Christmas Blonde 2"';
This is the sequel of "The Christmas Blonde", produced one year after the original. Betty, now topless, gives Santa the blowjob she was supposed to in the previous Christmas Blonde episode, saying that it is for the children of the world. Meanwhile, the Santa Claus seems to enjoy it. Then, another Santa Claus comes down the chimney and fights the other. The Santa Claus is revealed to be Grandpa Slappy in disguise. JD and Sven, appearing as policemen, appear and arrest Slappy. The real Santa calls Slappy "a very naughty boy." The real Santa apologizes to Betty. When Betty asks how she can repay him, Santa pulls out the puppet and begins "Well...", probably suggesting a sexual activity much as the Santa impostor did.

 "'Dick or Treat'";
A "Brickhouse Betty Quickie". It is Halloween and a Frankenstein-like monster named Frank appears at Betty's house and asks for candy. Betty tells him she has no candy, but Frank notices her very large breasts and strips her and himself naked. Betty then notices that she is naked. Lightning flashes and he rapes her in various ways. Grandpa Slappy yells "It's alive!" In the end, Frank urinates an excess amount of semen.
This episode is the first time that Betty actually yells that she is being raped.

 "'The Christmas Blonde 3: The Snatch'";
This is the sequel of The Christmas Blonde 3. Betty, wearing very revealing bikinis, is sunbathing with Santa who is relieved from the Grandpa Slappy incident. Betty is kidnapped by The Puppeteer, who is revealed to be an old employee of Santa's. The Puppeteer sends two women who look exactly like Betty but for their skin and hair color, named Holly and Jolly, to distract Santa while the Puppeteer has sex with Betty. Santa resists and rescues Betty.

Upcoming Episodes.
 "Dugout Betty";
 "Big Top Betty";
 "The Blooper Reel";

When Betty becomes naked.
Betty is always stripped or persuaded to do sexual activity. In this episode...

 "'The Christmas Blonde'";
She does not become naked in this episode, only because the only thing that happens is that Santa Claus passes out in this episode.

 "'The Vacation Blonde'";
Betty starts out as naked when trying to close the suitcase.

 "'The Jungle Blonde'";
When JD catches Betty and starts to have sex on the vines.

 "'The Irish Blonde'";
When the leprechaun grants her first wish - making her the most attractive figure in the bar.

 "'The Easter Blonde'";
Right before she tries to blow Angus's penis (only her top falls out though).

 "'Lifeguard Betty'";
When Betty is running to "rescue" Grandpa Slappy.

 "'The Christmas Blonde 2"';
When Betty is told by the puppeteer that she has to do a blowjob to save Santa and the children of the world.

 "'Dick or Treat'";
When Frank cannot get candy, but decides to go for Betty's boobs and strip her.

 "'The Christmas Blonde 3: The Snatch'";
When she is kidnapped from the Puppeteer. When Santa enters the Puppeteer's lair, Betty is found being blinded and raped by the Puppeteer, with Holly and Jolly stroking her boobs and genitals.

Betty Games.
There is one game at the official Betty website - Flashing Betty. When the mouse cursor is over Betty's breasts or genitals, she will flash them. The only way to flash them both at the same time (along with orgasmic sounds) is to move the mouse cursor over her belly button. Light flash around the side of the screen.

External links.
 Flashing Betty;
 Rum Runners;
 BrickhouseBetty.net;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2991446" title="Bryanston, Ontario" nonfiltered="72" processed="72" dbindex="450072">
Bryanston is a hamlet in Middlesex Centre, Ontario, Canada, located at the intersection of Highbury Avenue (Middlesex County Road 23) and 12 Mile Road. It is located approximately ten kilometres north of London.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7856765" title="Buuz" nonfiltered="73" processed="73" dbindex="450073">
Buuz is a Mongolian dumpling or pastry of minced lamb or mutton, and or beef and an example of authentic Mongolian cuisine.  The dish is traditionally eaten at home on Tsagaan Sar, the Mongolian New Year.  It is also offered at restaurants and small cafes throughout the capital of Ulaanbaatar.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3336994" title="John Fulton Reid" nonfiltered="74" processed="74" dbindex="450074">

John Fulton Reid (b. March 3 1956) is a former New Zealand  cricketer.  

Reid played in 19 Tests and 25 One-day Internationals between 1979 and 1986. His Test average was 46.28 and included six Test centuries. His ODI average was 27.52.

He is a cousin of former Australian cricketer Bruce Reid, but is not related to former New Zealand captain John Richard Reid.

External links.
Cricinfo article on John F. Reid;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5223875" title="Gouin Street Arena" nonfiltered="75" processed="75" dbindex="450075">
Gouin Street Arena is the predecessor to the Sault Memorial Gardens, Sault Ste. Marie's premier sports complex from 1949-2006.  It was located on Gouin St. between Queen and Bay Streets near East Street.  The Arena housed in-season ice surfaces for both ice hockey and curling.  The building's seating was bench-style (in much the same fashion as the Memorial Gardens) and capacity was around 1000.  The building was destroyed by fire in 1945.









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="858076" title="Arsenal (automobile)" nonfiltered="76" processed="76" dbindex="450076">
The Arsenal was an English automobile manufactured at St Albans, Hertfordshire from 1898 to 1899.  The Boll\E9e-like tricycle was reputed to be 3 hp.  The manufacturer boasted "practically the control of one of the largest and best-equipped plants of American Automotive Machinery."  The tiller-steered car, which could carry "two or three persons, or four children," cost \A359.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5314198" title="Frederik Christian II, Duke of Augustenborg" nonfiltered="77" processed="77" dbindex="450077">
Frederik Christian II, Duke of Augustenborg (1765 - 1814) was a Danish prince and feudal magnate. He held the island of Als and some other castles (such as Sonderborg) in Schleswig.

He was born as the eldest son of Duke Friedrich Christian I of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg (1721-1794) and his cousin Princess Charlotte of Holstein-Pl\F6n (1744-70). Until his father's death, he was styled Hereditary Prince of Augustenborg.

He was a prince with an exceptionally high dose of Danish blood in his ancestry, his maternal grandmother, paternal grandmother and paternal great-grandmother having been, respectively, born Countess of Reventlow, Countess of Danneskiold-Samsoe and Countess of Ahlefeldt-Langeland. He was closely related to all important families of the then high nobility of Denmark. The negaive side was that his ancestry was quite much "comital", instead of including royal princesses, and duchesses of petty German states, as was customary with the Oldenburg royal family. Their family was regarded as a bit lower than the Ebenbuertige small rulers of Germany thought to be the standard.

In 1786 the 20-year-old hereditary prince however married his distant cousin, the 14-year-old Louise Auguste of Denmark and Norway (1771-1843), daughter of the late Queen Caroline Mathilde of Denmark. Louise Auguste was born during queen's marriage with the insane king Christian VII of Denmark and Norway, but unofficially it was widely known that her natural father was Johann Friedrich Struensee, the king s court physician and de facto regent of the country at the time of her birth. (She was referred to sometimes as "la petite Struensee".)

The story of antecedents of the prince's marriage goes as follows: In February 1779 the nation's foremost statesman, Chief Minister count Andreas Peter Bernstorff, hatched an ingenious plan for the young princess. Something that has been often customary with royal children suspected of not being sired by their nominal fathers but by mother's illicit liaison: to marry such to another member of the royal house. Since a male child of hers could inherit the throne some day, it would be advantageous to arrange a marriage early, and to marry the "half-royal" back into the extended royal house, to the Hereditary Prince of Augustenborg. This plan not only had the positive effect of more closely connecting the Danish royal house s two lines, the ruling House of Oldenborg and the offshoot House of Augustenborg, thus discouraging the threat of a breakup of the kingdom, but also the prevention of her marriage into the Swedish royal house (the latter danger was rather low, however: at that time, there were Swedish princes only twenty years or more her senior, and her first cousin, the future Gustav IV Adolf of Sweden had just been born when she already was seven).

The binding agreements were made in 1780, and in spring 1785 the young duke Frederik Christian II came to Copenhagen. The engagement was announced then, and a year later, on May 27, 1786 the wedding took place at Christiansborg Castle.  

They lived at the Castle for many years until the Christiansborg Castle fire of 1794 and the death of his father, the Duke of Augustenborg (Frederik Christian I). The prince inherited the estate and the Duchy.

After 1794 they lived during the summer on the island of Als and at Gr\E5sten.

The couple had three children:
 Caroline Amalie (b. Sept. 28, 1796 Copenhagen - d 9.3.1881), married 1815 Prince Christian Frederick of Denmark (d 1848), the future Christian VIII of Denmark and earlier, 1814, proclaimed king of Norway, briefly before Swedish conquest. Became Queen of Denmark. She died childless 1881, as HM The Queen Dowager of Denmark.

 Christian August (b. July 19, 1798 Copenhagen - d 11.3.1869),  the Duke of Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg (who was to become a pivotal figure in the Question of Schleswig-Holstein in 1850's and 1860's). In order to hold to potential Danish feelings, he was married in 1820 to a Danish relative, Countess of Danneskjold-Samsoe (Lovisa-Sophie Danneskjold-Sams\F8e, 1797-1867), relative of kings of Denmark, belonging to a bastard branch of House of Oldenburg. Duke Christian sold his rights to the Duchy of Schleswig-Holstein to Denmark in aftermath of Treaty of London, but later renounced his rights to the Duchy of Schleswig-Holstein in favor of his son Frederik August. He was the brother-in-law of King (Christian VIII). And nephew of late Frederik VI. Duke Christian August died 1869. Father of e.g: Frederik August (Friedrich Christian August), Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg, born 1829 in Augustenborg. He was nephew of Caroline Amalie, the incumbent Queen Consort of Denmark, and "nephew-in-law" of the king himself. As well as a great-nephew of Frederick VI.  In 1863 claimed to succeed King Frederik VII of Denmark as Duke of Schleswig-Holstein. Died 1880. He became father of one surviving son and a number of daughters.

 Frederik Emil August (b. Aug. 23, 1800 Kiel - d 2.7.1865 Beirut), the  Prince  of N\F8r (Noer). Married 1829 Countess Henriette Danneskjold-Sams\F8e (1806-58) who was a Danish noblewoman and relative of kings of Denmark, belonging to a bastard branch of House of Oldenburg. Later he was created Prinz von Noer (1864) and died 1865. Father of:
 Friedrich Christian Karl August (Gottorp 1830-Noer 1881);
 Luise Karoline Henriette Auguste Gfn von Noer (Schleswig 1836-1866);

Over the years there developed conflict between him and Louise's brother king Frederick VI of Denmark, especially over the relationship of the double-duchies of Schleswig-Holstein and his small appanage around Sonderborg there on one hand and the Danish monarchy on the other. His wife remained loyal to the Danish Royal House throughout the differences.

In 1810, his younger brother Charles August of Augustenburg became chosen by Swedes as their new crown prince, to succeed Charles XIII of Sweden. He however died during the spring.
Soon the duke himself pursued attempts to be chosen as successor to the Swedish throne. However, Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte, Marshal of France and Prince of Ponte Corvo, got elected. His wife opposed the Swedish affair and orked actively to undermine the duke's opportunity.

Their relationship eventually fell apart, and Frederik Christian tried to legally limit her influence over their children s future.  He died on June 14, 1814.

He was succeeded by his eldest son, Christian, Duke of Augustenborg, then 16 yo. Louise Auguste took control of the Augustenborg estates and the children s upbringing.  The estate was turned over to the son and heir on his return from an extended foreign tour in 1820.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4012245" title="Petter M\F8rch Koren" nonfiltered="78" processed="78" dbindex="450078">
Petter M\F8rch Koren (1910-2004) was the Norwegian Minister of Justice in 1963 and 1972-1973.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6516350" title="Radioactive dentin abrasion" nonfiltered="79" processed="79" dbindex="450079">

A procedure for the measurement of either tooth enamel or dentin abrasion by the use of human teeth made radioactive by mild neutron irradiation.

Abrasive is the term for a dentifrice cleaning agent which, in concert with the brushing action of the toothbrush, cleans teeth by dislodging food particles and plaque. Several abrasives or cleaning agents are currently marketed in various toothpastes, including dicalcium
phosphate, hydrated silica and sodium bicarbonate or baking soda.

Radioactive dentin abrasion method of measurement  of dentifrice abrassivenes toward  human teeth was described in 1958 by researchers R. J. GRABENSTETTER, R. W. BROGE, F. L. JACKSON, AND A. W. RADIKE in their article THE MEASUREMENT OF THE ABRASION OF HUMAN TEETH BY DENTIFRICE ABRASIVES: A TEST UTILIZING RADIOACTIVE TEETH.

The procedure is more precise and faster than former methods dependent upon the measurement of the depth of a groove cut into tooth structure. (The former methods was first studied by W. D. Miller in 1907). The results are obtained directly in terms of the amount of human tooth structure worn away by a toothbrush and dentifrice abrasive slurry operating at a known, constant brush pressure and a constant stroke speed. The coefficient of variation of the test is 6-7 when 8 replications are carried out, and 10-15 when only duplicates are run as in the usual routine testing. This is one half to one fourth of the variation involved in the depth-of-cut method and results can be obtained with an expenditure of one half to one third of the time of the former method.

The procedure was later adopted by ADA for measuring of Relative Dentin Abrasion Index,








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="221521" title="Live/Dead" nonfiltered="80" processed="80" dbindex="450080">


Live/Dead is the first official live album released by the San Francisco-based band Grateful Dead. It was recorded over a series of live concerts in early 1969 and released later in the year on November 10. At the time of its release, Robert Christgau wrote that parts of the album contained "the finest rock improvisation ever recorded." A landmark live album that captured the Grateful Dead's improvisations at their best   All Music Guide would write that "Few recordings have ever represented the essence of an artist in performance as faithfully as Live/Dead"   it is also the final album with keyboardist Tom Constanten. 



History.
The songs were recorded with a mobile 16-track studio. Owsley "Bear" Stanley also asked Ron Wickersham to invent a mike splitter that fed both into the PA and the record inputs with no loss in quality. "Dark Star" and "St. Stephen" pairing was taken from the February 27, 1969 show at the Fillmore West; "The Eleven" and "Turn On Your Lovelight" were from the January 26, 1969 show at the Avalon Ballroom; "Death Don't Have No Mercy," "Feedback," and "And We Bid You Goodnight" were from the March 2, 1969 show at the Fillmore West.

Unlike in later years, in early 1969 the contents of the Dead's set lists varied little.  They improvised the medley of "Dark Star"/"St. Stephen"/"The Eleven" several times a week, which enabled them to explore widely within the songs' simple frameworks. The album was a financial success for the band in the eyes of their label, Warner Bros. Constanten had commented that "Warner Bros. had pointed out that they had sunk $100,000-plus into Aoxomoxoa ... so someone had the idea that if we sent them a double live album, three discs for the price of one wouldn't be such a bad deal."

Track listing.
Side one.
 "Dark Star" (Grateful Dead, Hunter)   23:18;

Side two.
 "St. Stephen" (Hunter, Garcia, Lesh)   6:31;
 "The Eleven" (Hunter, Lesh)   9:18;
Side three.
 "Turn On Your Lovelight" (Scott, Malone)   15:05;
Side four.
 "Death Don't Have No Mercy" (Davis)   10:28;
 "Feedback" (McGannahan Skjellyfetti)   7:49;
 "And We Bid You Goodnight" (traditional arrangement)   0:37;
2003 Reissue.
"Dark Star" ;
"St. Stephen";
"The Eleven";
"Turn On Your Lovelight" ;
"Death Don't Have No Mercy" ;
"Feedback";
"And We Bid You Goodnight";
"Dark Star";
Bonus track, Radio edit/single version. ;
"Live/Dead Radio promo";
Bonus track.

Musical Personnel.
Grateful Dead:
Jerry Garcia - guitars, vocals;
Bob Weir - guitars, vocals;
Tom Constanten - keyboards;
Ron "Pigpen" McKernan - organ, vocals, percussion;
Phil Lesh - basses, vocals;
Bill Kreutzmann - percussion;
Mickey Hart - percussion;

Personnel:
Robert Hunter - song writer;
Bob Matthews - engineer, producer;
Betty Cantor - producer, engineer;
Merl Saunders - keyboards (studio over dubs);
R.D. Thomas - cover art;

Charts/Certification.
Billboard chart

RIAA certification


See also.
Grateful Dead;
Grateful Dead discography;

References.












ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3067855" title="List of asteroids/111001?112000" nonfiltered="81" processed="81" dbindex="450081">



! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="001"| 111001 111100 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="101"| 111101 111200 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="201"| 111201 111300 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="301"| 111301 111400 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="401"| 111401 111500 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="501"| 111501 111600 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="601"| 111601 111700 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="701"| 111701 111800 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="801"| 111801 111900 edit

! colspan="5" style="background-color:silver;text-align:center;" id="901"| 111901 112000 edit






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7078291" title="Jesper Rasmussen Brochmand" nonfiltered="82" processed="82" dbindex="450082">

Bishop of Zealand; born at K\F8ge (20 m. south west of Copenhagen), Zealand, August 5, 1585; died at Copenhagen April 19, 1652. 

He studied at Herlufsholm, Copenhagen, Leyden, and Franeker; became rector of Herlufsholm academy 
1608; professor p\E6dagogicus, University of Copenhagen, 1610; professor of Greek 1613; member of the theological faculty 1615. In 1617 he was appointed teacher to Prince Christian, son of King Christian IV., but returned to the university three years later. At this time Denmark was disturbed by Roman Catholic propaganda, and Brochmand made the controversy with Rome a subject of his public lectures. In 1626 28 he published Controversi\E6 sacr\E6 (3 parts), a reply to Bellarmine's attacks on the Lutheran Church, and in 1634, at the king's order, he engaged in a polemic 
with the Jesuits, who endeavored to defend the conversion of Margrave Christian William of Brandenburg to Catholicism. In their final reply the Jesuits stigmatized Brochmand as a "disturber of the Roman empire, the boldest despiser of His Imperial Majesty and the Catholic rulers, a poisonous spider, and a degenerate Absalom." Against this pamphlet Brochmand delivered a series of lectures which after his death were collected and published under the title Apologi\E6, speculi veritatis confutatio (Copenhagen, 1653). He was ordained bishop of Zealand in 1639, and during his long and fruitful activity in this office reorganized the Danish church service, especially by abolishing the Latin choir, and by introducing Wednesday services during Lent. His reputation as a dogmatist was established by his Univers\E6 theologi\E6 systema (2 vols., 1633) in which he proved himself a bitter opponent, not only of the Roman Catholics, but also of the Reformed, whom he calls "enemies of God and of truth." He wrote several devotional works, of which his Sabbati sanctificatio for more than two centuries was a favorite collection of sermons with the Danish people.


 

See also.
Lutheran Orthodoxy;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="555156" title="Born to the Purple" nonfiltered="83" processed="83" dbindex="450083">

"Born to the Purple" is an episode from the first season of the science-fiction television series Babylon 5.

Plot synopsis.


Londo Mollari is being forced into negotiating with the Narn. He would rather be pursuing a new love interest though. The love interest, Adira Tyree, is actually the slave of an alien named Trakis. He is using her to get his Purple Files, a stash of dirt and information on Centauri's elite that he hopes to sell to the highest bidder. Londo promotes Vir Cotto to diplomatic status to negotiate with the Narn while he pursues Adira.

Meanwhile Michael Garibaldi has discover unauthorized use of the Gold Channel communications network, which he attempts to track down. Eventually he locates this to Susan Ivanova using it to talk to her dying father back in Russia on Earth.

Adira, having drugged Londo and got hold of his purple files, is about to meet her master. She starts to have second thoughts about the deception and makes a run for it.

Sinclair is able to trick Trakis into divulging Adira's whereabouts. Trakis is then triumphantly floored by a punch from Londo and Sinclair is able to locate Adira and return the crystal to Londo.

Adira, despite Londo's pleading, decides to leave the station.

Arc significance.

Adira Tyree's return to Babylon 5 plays a major part in the third-season episode "Interludes and Examinations."

This episode marks the first real development of Londo's character, as he shows a great deal of tenderness and genuine emotion to counterbalance his usual Machiavellian cynicism.

Production details.

"Born to the Purple" was originally titled "Amaranth." 

Trivia.
The color purple was very popular in Roman times as a color of state. The dye used to make it was expensive and so use of it gave a certain status. Purple porphyry rock was extracted only from the Egyptian desert. Being porphyrogenitus ("Born to the Purple"), in the porphyry chamber of the Constantinople palace is an indication that the person was part of the imperial family of the Eastern Roman Empire. He was born in the purple. Edward Gibbon.

See also.
Porphyrogenitus

External links.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4664063" title="Mount Carmel Cemetery (Hillside)" nonfiltered="84" processed="84" dbindex="450084">

Mount Carmel Cemetery is a Roman Catholic cemetery located in the Chicago suburb of Hillside, Illinois.  Mount Carmel is an active cemetery, located within the jurisdiction of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago.  The cemetery is located near the Eisenhower Expressway (Interstate 290) at Wolf and Roosevelt Roads.  It is adjacent to two other cemeteries, those being Queen of Heaven Cemetery, another Catholic Cemetery, and Oakridge Glen Oaks Cemetery.

In 1901 Mount Carmel Cemetery was consecrated.  The cemetery maintained its own office until 1965, when it combined operations with Queen of Heaven Cemetery.  The cemetery is currently 214 acres in size.  There are over 226,275 people buried at Mount Carmel, and about 800 people are interred annually at Mount Carmel.

The Bishop's Mausoleum is located at Mount Carmel Cemetery, which is the final resting places of the Bishops and Archbishops of Chicago.  Most recently, Joseph Cardinal Bernardin was buried here after his 1996 death.  Also on the cemetery grounds are the final resting places of a number of local organized crime figures, most notably Al Capone.  There are over 400 family mausoleums located on the cemetery grounds.

People Buried At Mt. Carmel.
Below is a partial listing of people buried at Mt. Carmel Cemetery.
 Julia Buccola Petta - also known as "The Italian Bride"   ;

Religious Figures.
 Samuel Cardinal Stritch;
 John Cardinal Cody;
 Joseph Cardinal Bernardin;

Organized Crime.
 Dion O'Banion;
 Al Capone;
 Earl "Hymie" Weiss;
 Sam Giancana;
 Genna Brothers - Sam, Vincenzo, Pete, Angelo, Antonio, and Mike.

External links.
 Catholic Cemeteries of Chicago;
The Mount Carmel Page;
 Mount Carmel page on Graveyards of Chicago;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2124828" title="Go West (band)" nonfiltered="85" processed="85" dbindex="450085">
Go West are an English pop duo.  
It was formed in 1982, by Peter Cox (born 17 November 1955, in Twickenham, London, England); and Richard Drummie (born 20 March 1959, in Twickenham, London, England).
Musical career.


Go West quickly had a publishing deal and possessed a portastudio, but lacked a band or recording company.  Cox and Drummie decided, with support from John Glover, their manager, to find a musical producer, and record just two of their songs. The tracks "We Close Our Eyes" and "Call Me" found Go West developing a record deal with Chrysalis Records.  The songwriting duo specialised in radio  friendly, white soul sounds.

The band's debut single, "We Close Our Eyes," was released in 1985 and managed to reach Number 5 on the UK Singles Chart, and # 41 on the Billboard Hot 100. The video for the song became an early favourite on MTV. This helped them to be voted the "Best Newcomers" at the 1986 BRIT Awards. The song was part of the soundtrack for the Italian low-budget horror film Demoni, also known as Demons. The single would prove to be their highest-placing UK single, and only appearance in the UK Top Ten.

Later in 1990, Go West scored a Top 10 U.S. hit with the song "King of Wishful Thinking" from the movie, Pretty Woman. An instrumental version of the song's chorus is also alleged to be heard in the production logo for Gracie Films (seen at the end of The Simpsons).

Trivia.
 Peter Cox was quickly brought in to replace Then Jerico's Mark Shaw on ITV reality TV show Reborn in the USA when Shaw stormed off the series in the first few days of the show's tour. Even though he had success as part of Go West, he was able to go on the show as none of his solo singles had found success in the United States. He was tipped to be one of the finalists, along with Tony Hadley from Spandau Ballet, until he forgot the words to the Norah Jones hit he was singing at the time.
 In February 2006 Drummie went on a charity trek to the summit of Mount Roraima with Spandau Ballet's Hadley and Martin Fry from ABC. He spent most of his free time shopping and whittling a six-foot long branch into the "Drummie" stick. ;
 Go West guitarist Alan Murphy later joined Level 42, and has been Kate Bush's session guitarist as well.
 Their song "Call Me" was featured in the video game Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, on Flash FM. It was also featured on the closing credits of an episode of the BBC One comedy, I'm Alan Partridge.
 One of their songs entitled, "One Way Street," was featured on the Rocky IV motion picture soundtrack in 1985.

Discography.
Go West singles.
 1985 "We Close Our Eyes" - #5 UK, #41 US;
 1985 "Call Me" - #12 UK, #54 US;
 1985 "Goodbye Girl" - #25 UK;
 1985 "Eye to Eye" - #73 US;
 1985 "Don't Look Down - The Sequel" - #35 US, #13 UK;
 1986 "True Colours" - #48 UK;
 1987 "I Want To Hear It From You" - #43 UK;
 1987 "The King Is Dead" - #67 UK;
 1990 "King Of Wishful Thinking" - #18 UK; #8 US;
 1992 "Faithful" - #13 UK; #14 US ;
 1993 "What You Won't Do For Love" - #15 UK; #55 US;
 1993 "Still In Love" - #43 UK;
 1993 "Tracks Of My Tears" - #16 UK;
 1993 "We Close Our Eyes" - remix - #40 UK;

Go West albums.
 1985 Go West - Chrysalis Records UK #8; US # 60;
 1985 Go West / Bangs And Crashes (remix album) - Chrysalis Records;
 1987 Dancing On the Couch - Chrysalis Records UK #19; US #172;
 1992 Indian Summer - Chrysalis Records UK #13; US #154;
 1993 Aces and Kings - The Best Of Go West - Chrysalis Records UK #5;
 2001 Live At The NEC - Blueprint Records;
 2004 Tony Hadley vs Peter Cox & Go West - Blueprint Records;

Peter Cox solo releases.
 1997 Peter Cox - Chrysalis Records UK # 64;
 2001 Flame Still Burns (EP) - Blueprint Records;
 2002 Nine Miles High (EP) - Blueprint Records;
 2004 Desert Blooms - Blueprint Records;
 2004 Tony Hadley vs Peter Cox & Go West - Blueprint Records;
 2005 Game For Fools (EP) - Blueprint Recording Corporation Ltd;
 2006 Motor City Music - Curb Records;

References.
Guinness World Records British Hit Singles (16th Edition) - ISBN 0-85112-190-X;
The Guinness Book Of British Hit Albums (7th Edition) - ISBN 0-85112-619-7;

External links.
Official Go West, Peter Cox and Richard Drummie Website http://www.gowestforum.co.uk;
Official Go West Forum http://www.gowestforum.co.uk;
Official Peter Cox Website http://www.peter-cox.org;
Unofficial Fans forum http://www.langersandginge.co.uk;
Official Japanese Go West-Peter Cox Website http://www.gowest-petercox.jp;
Go West Discography with Picture Sleeves & Other Realeses at QuasimodoBell;
;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2371672" title="Cresswell, Northumberland" nonfiltered="86" processed="86" dbindex="450086">
Cresswell is a village in Northumberland, in England. It is situated approximately 6 km (4 miles) to the north of Ashington, on the North Sea coast.

It is a popular bird watching area with Cresswell pond & bird hide nearby and the Druridge Bay Country Park less than 3 miles away. 

External links.
 Cresswell Towers Caravan Park;
 Cresswell House B&B;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6247307" title="Atlanta Regional Commission" nonfiltered="87" processed="87" dbindex="450087">
The Atlanta Regional Commission (ARC) is the regional planning and intergovernmental coordination agency for the Atlanta, Georgia, region, as defined as a 10-county area including Cherokee, Clayton, Cobb, DeKalb, Douglas, Fayette, Fulton, Gwinnett, Henry and Rockdale counties, as well as the City of Atlanta.  It also serves as the Metropolitan Planning Organization for 19 counties in the Atlanta Region.

ARC and its predecessor agencies have coordinated the planning efforts in the region since 1947, when the first publicly-supported, multi-county planning agency in the United States was created. At that time, the Metropolitan Planning Commission (MPC) served DeKalb and Fulton counties and the City of Atlanta. Since then, ARC membership has grown to its current size of 10 counties and 63 municipalities.

The ARC is funded through a number of sources: local, state and federal government entities and private funds. 

Membership.
The Board membership of the commission includes: 1) each county commission chairman in the 10-county region; 2) one mayor from each county (except Fulton County); 3) one mayor from the northern half of Fulton County and one mayor from the southern half of Fulton County; 4) the mayor of the City of Atlanta; 5) one member of the Atlanta City Council; 6) fifteen private citizens, one from each of the 15 multi-jurisdictional districts of roughly equal population, elected by the 23 public officials; and 7) one member appointed by the Board of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.

Agency structure and functions.
The ARC is divided into numerous departments, covering a broad range of issues, from the region's growing senior population to region-wide transit issues to GIS data. The agency's structure and functions can be oulined as follows:

Office of the Director;
Communications: Communications Services, Community Involvement, Graphic Services, Information Center, Marketing, Media Relations, ARC Web site, MARC Youth Leadership Program (Model Atlanta Regional Commission);
Community Services: Aging Services, Georgia Region 3 Advisory Council, Governmental Services, LINK Program (Leadership, Involvement, Networking, Knowledge), RLI (Regional Leadership Institute), Workforce Development;
Comprehensive Planning: ARC Review Processes, Data Research, Environmental Planning, Land Use Planning, Transportation Demand Management, Transportation Planning,GIS (Geographic Information Systems), ;
Support Services: Accounting, ARIS (Atlanta Region Information System), Budget, Contracts and Grants Administration, Facilities Management, Human Resources, Information Technology, Purchasing;

Awards.
Each fall ARC give awards for noteworthy new projects. The categories are
Development of Excellence which usually goes to large projects like a redone town square;
Exceptional Merit for Context Sensitive Neighborhood Infill Design;
Exceptional Merit for Historic Preservation;
Exceptional Merit for Infill Redevelopment;
Livable Centers Initiative Achievement Award;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3353361" title="Paranoid Illusions" nonfiltered="88" processed="88" dbindex="450088">


Paranoid Illusions is a single by German industrial music band X Marks the Pedwalk, the second from the album Human Desolation. It was released by Zoth Ommog in Europe as both an LP and CD.

Summary.
Paranoid Illusions is the seventh single by X Marks the Pedwalk, and the second from the album Human Desolation.  It was the first X Marks the Pedwalk single not to be pressed on vinyl, and was released on CD by Zoth Ommog records with the catalogue number ZOT 28 CD. 

Although the artwork for Paranoid Illusions closely resembles that of Human Desolation, Andr\E9 Schmechta has admitted to not liking it.  

Track listing.
 "Paranoid Illusions (Face Edit)"   4:39;
 "I See You (Extended)"   5:08;
 "Consciousness"   2:52;
 "Why?"   3:58;
 "Paranoid Illusions (Sky Mix)"   7:29;
 "I See You (Second View)"   2:43;

Personnel.
Sevren Ni-arb (Andr\E9 Schmechta);
Raive Yarx (Thorsten Schmechta);

See also.
Singles by X Marks the Pedwalk

Black Door (1988);
Arbitrary Execution (1989);
Danger/Disease Control (1990);
Abattoir (1991);
Cenotaph (1992);
The Trap (1993);
Paranoid Illusions (1993);
Facer (1994);

External links.
Entry at official X Marks the Pedwalk website.
Entry at Discogs.com.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1281520" title="Roger Sanchez" nonfiltered="89" processed="89" dbindex="450089">
Roger Sanchez (born on June 1, 1967, in Queens, New York) is a popular Dominican-American commercial house DJ who has scored many hits in the European and World Charts. 

He is considered by many to be "the DJ's DJ" for his innovative mixing techniques and his ability to connect with the crowd through his sets.

The eldest of two sons born to Angela Almonte and Hugo Sanchez, immigrants from the Dominican Republic, Roger always pursued a career in music. Sanchez attended Pratt Institute working towards a degree in architecture, but took his father's advice to take a break from his studies to devote his full energy to DJing and see if he could make a career of it. Eventually he went on to spin at the largest nightclubs in New York City, and later around the world. Along with fellow New York deejays David Morales and Danny Tenaglia, Sanchez has become an icon of the European party scene, especially on the Spanish island of Ibiza, notoriously known worldwide for its hedonistic lifestyle and nightlife.

He later began remixing records for many artists including Michael Jackson, Babyface and many more. His mixes are played widely in dance clubs, with many of his tracks included in the sets of other House DJs.

In 2001, he released his first (production) album, First Contact, from which the single "Another Chance" was taken. It went on to become a major hit, entering the UK Singles Chart at #1. The song was based on a sample of the first verse of Toto's song "I Won't Hold You Back".

Sanchez also hosts a radio show called 'Release Yourself', with worldwide distribution. He has also released a series of compilation albums based on songs from this show. 

In 2004 Roger won his first Grammy Award for 'Best Remixed Recording' for his remix of No Doubt's "Hella Good".

Besides his career as a deejay, Sanchez is the owner of his own label, Stealth Records.

External links.
Official Website;
Official MySpace Website;
Official "Release Yourself" Website;
Roger Sanchez on the Internet Movie Database;
Roger Sanchez fansite;
Video of Roger Spinning in Ibiza in July 2006;
Interview with DJ Times, 2006;














ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="9024875" title="Escape (Metallica song)" nonfiltered="90" processed="90" dbindex="450090">


"Escape" is a song by heavy metal band Metallica. This song is from there second album Ride the Lightning (1984).

The backgroud noise you can near the end of the song you can hear prison sirens in the background to emphasize the escape.
The song Escape is about an escaped prisoner on the run which can also be interpretated as an escape from everything which is preventing you from doing what you want to or even from being as you want to be.

External links.
Escape lyrics;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5752671" title="Hits U Missed" nonfiltered="91" processed="91" dbindex="450091">


Hits U Missed is a 2004 compilation album from Hip Hop artist Masta Ace, released through his self-owned M3 record label. The compilation features a number of singles released during his MIA period between 1996 and 2000, as well as a few B-Side songs from past singles.

Track listing.
"Conflict" Featuring Guru;
Originally released on the "Conflict" single (2000, Mona Records);
"Top 10 List";
Originally released on the "Turn it Up" single (1996, Delicious Vinyl Records);
"Ghetto Like";
Originally released on the "Ghetto Like" single (2000, Fat Beats);
"Last Bref";
Originally released on the "Brooklyn Blocks" single (2000, Duck Down Records);
"Observations" Featuring Apocalypse;
Originally released on the Prime Cuts compilation (2000, Delicious Vinyl Records);
"Hellbound" Featuring Eminem and J-Black;
Originally released on the Game Over compilation (2000, Yosumi Records);
"The Outcome";
Originally released on the "Ghetto Like" single (2000, Fat Beats);
"Splash";
Originally released on the Hip Hop 101 compilation (2000, Tommy Boy Records);
"Cars" Featuring Spunk Bigga;
Originally released on the "Cars" single (1998, Tape Kingz/INC Records);
"Rap 2K1";
Originally released on the Game Over II compilation (2001, JCOR Records);
"Brooklyn Blocks" Featuring Buckshot;
Originally released on the "Brooklyn Blocks" single (2000, Duck Down Records);
"Spread it Out";
Originally released on the Game Over compilation (2000, Yosumi Records);
"NY Confidential";
Originally released on the "NY Confidential" single (1999, Replay Records);
"Ya Hardcore";
Originally released on the Sittin' on Chrome EP (1995, Delicious Vinyl Records);
"Maintain" Featuring Lord Digga;
Originally released on the Sittin' on Chrome EP (1995, Delicious Vinyl Records);



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1958060" title="Colloredo-Mannsfeld" nonfiltered="92" processed="92" dbindex="450092">
Colloredo-Mannsfeld was a German Princely family which was based in Austria. It emerged from a union of the Principalities of Colloredo and Mansfeld-Bornst\E4dt in 1788 and was mediatised to Austria in 1806.

Princes of Colloredo-Mannsfeld (1788 - 1806).
Francis Gundaccar I (1788 - 1806) (Prince of Mansfeld-Bornst\E4dt);




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="639549" title="Star Acad\E9mie" nonfiltered="93" processed="93" dbindex="450093">


Star Acad\E9mie is a Quebec reality TV series started in 2003, featuring an array of competing young women and men for the title of the best singer. It is the Qu\E9b\E9cois adaptation of the French television show Star Academy produced by Netherlands company Endemol, based in the Spanish format called Operaci\F3n Triunfo.

Description.
It is aired for two months each year (February to April) on the TVA network. It is part of the reality television craze of the turn of the millennium. Hosted by Julie Snyder, the show is a competition to find the best young francophone singer, not only in Quebec, but also in french speaking regions of Canada, having auditions in Ontario (Eastern Ontario) and New Brunswick (l'Acadie). Then fourteen people (seven of each gender) are chosen to compete in front of the cameras.

It is separated in two simultaneous formats: each day during the week, a show presents moments of the life and training in the common house of the Acad\E9miciens and each weekend sees one Gala show where the contenders sing. At each of these Galas, some participants are put on the line and one is chosen to stay by the public and by the judging panel.

It proved to be immensely popular, drawing not only viewership, but genuine affection from the public for the young idealistic contenders. Pride also arises for the regions where the participants are from, like pride was felt by many from the Acadian people when Wilfred Le Bouthillier, from Acadia, was chosen for the competition and later crowned winner of the first, 2003 edition. 

It has also proved to be an effective springboard for the singing careers of some of its past participants, like 2003 finalists Wilfred Le Bouthillier, who recorded with the help of renowned Cajun singer Zachary Richard, and Marie-\C9laine Thibert, who also released an album and sung for the soundtrack of L\E9a Pool's movie The Blue Butterfly.



Origins.
It is inspired by the French show Star Academy and is similar to the Pop Idol & American Idol phenomena. The name was francized for its Quebec adaptation because of the local importance given to the respect of the French language. However, it does create an grammatically impossible phrase in French. The proper translation would be Acad\E9mie des stars, although this could be considered less catchy. Francization is typically given even more importance in Quebec French than in France itself (see Office qu\E9b\E9cois de la langue fran\E7aise).

A relatively small, but notable difference in the show format from its French counterpart is the selection process. Each week, the French version asks the public and judging panel to vote for which one, out of the contenders in danger, should be excluded from the show. The results are announced live, on stage, to the excluded member and the viewers. While this formula was followed in the beginning for Star Acad\E9mie, it soon was changed because of protests, for the system was seen as cruel treatment to the excluded participant. On one early show, singer Daniel Boucher quit the studio halfway through the show because of this impression. Consequently, the public and judges are now asked to vote for the participant to remain at the Acad\E9mie. The results are still announced live.

Criticism.
Star Acad\E9mie drew criticism for the capitalist and vertical integration strategies of producing megacompany Quebecor to publicize the show and make it profitable. For example, each vote from the public costs one dollar, the website is in large part reserved to paying members and the Quebecor company, massive owner of many Quebec media, heavily promoted the show via TVA (its own television network), all of its magazines and newspapers like 7 Jours and Journal de Montr\E9al. Astral Media's RockD\E9tente also did a lot of heavy promoting themselves during the 2005 edition, as the official stations of Star Acad\E9mie. Also were criticized the instant celebrity machine and supposed lack of artistic integrity aspects of the whole enterprise.

Theme songs.
2003: Et c'est pas fini by St\E9phane Venne;
2004: Un nouveau jour va se lever by Jacques Michel;
2005: L'\E9toile d'Am\E9rique by Claude Leveill\E9e;



Victors.
2003: Wilfred Le Bouthillier from Tracadie-Sheila, New Brunswick;
2004: St\E9phanie Lapointe from Brossard, Quebec;
2005: Marc-Andr\E9 Fortin from Hebertville, Quebec;

Acad\E9mie's principal.
2003: Jos\E9lito Michaud;
2004: Denise Filiatrault;
2005: Denis Bouchard (Ren\E9 Simard had retired before the show started);

Notable guests.
Plastic Bertrand;
Daniel Boucher;
Jean Charest;
C\E9line Dion;
Samantha Fox;
Bernard Landry;
Daniel Lavoie;
Paul Pich\E9;
Gino Vannelli;
Roch Voisine;
Natasha St-Pier;
Isabelle Boulay;
Lara Fabian;
Michel Rivard;
Claude L\E9veill\E9e;
Marjo;

Discography.
Official albums.
2003: Star Acad\E9mie;
2004: Star Acad\E9mie 2004;
2004: Star Acad\E9mie 2004: Meilleurs moments des finalistes aux galas;
2005: Star Acad\E9mie 2005;

Works of participants.
2003: Wilfred Le Bouthillier by Wilfred Le Bouthillier;
2004: Marie-\C9laine Thibert by  Marie-\C9laine Thibert;
2004: Comment J'feel by Maritza Boss\E9-Pelchat;
2004: Corneliu Montano by Corneliu Montano;
2004: Inoxydable by Marie-Mai Bouchard;
2004: Ent'chums by Frank, Stef and Dave;
2004: L\E9gendes Urbaines by \C9mily B\E9gin;
2005: Quand je ferme les yeux by Annie Villeneuve;
2005: Marc-Andr\E9 by Marc-Andr\E9 Niquet;
2005: Sur le fil by St\E9phanie Lapointe;
November 15, 2005: Meggie Lagace ??? by Meggie Lagace;
2006: Je l'ai jamais dit \E0 personne by \C9tienne Drapeau;
???: Sortil\E8ge by \C9lyse Robinault;

Contenders.
2003.
Fran\E7ois Babin from Rimouski, Bas-Saint-Laurent;
Jean-Fran\E7ois Bastien from Saint-Boniface, Mauricie;
\C9mily B\E9gin from Saint-J\E9r\F4me, Laurentides;
Dave Bourgeois from Baie-Comeau, C\F4te-Nord;
Maritza Boss\E9-Pelchat from Montr\E9al, Montreal Region (born in the Dominican Republic);
Marie-Mai Bouchard from Boucherville, Mont\E9r\E9gie;
Wilfred Le Bouthillier from Tracadie-Sheila (in Acadia);
St\E9phane Mercier from Norm\E9tal, Abitibi;
Pascal Nguyen-Desch\EAnes from Charlesbourg, National Capital Region;
\C9lyse Robineault from Montreal North, Montreal Region;
Martin Rouette from Montreal, Montreal Region;
Marie-\C9laine Thibert from Lasalle, Montreal Region;
Annie Villeneuve from Jonqui\E8re, Saguenay;
Suzie Villeneuve from Jonqui\E8re, Saguenay;

2004.
V\E9ronique Claveau from Rimouski, Bas-Saint-Laurent;
Marie-\C8ve C\F4t\E9 from Brossard, Mont\E9r\E9gie;
\C9tienne Drapeau from Quebec City, National Capital Region;
St\E9phanie Lapointe from Brossard, Mont\E9r\E9gie;
Meggie Lagac\E9 from Saint-Hubert, Mont\E9r\E9gie;
Janie Lemay from Rouyn-Noranda, Abitibi;
Marie-France Lettre from Gatineau, Outaouais;
Corn\E9liu Montano from Montreal, Montreal Region (born in Romania);
Marc-Andr\E9 Niquet from Pierreville, Centre-du-Qu\E9bec;
Dave Roussy from Port-Daniel, Gasp\E9sie;
Jason Battah from Joliette, Lanaudi\E8re;
Sandy Duperval-Agnant from Montreal, Montreal Region;
Jean-Fran\E7ois Prud'homme from Saint-Donat, Lanaudi\E8re;
Martin Giroux from Gatineau, Outaouais;

2005.
David Tremblay ;
Marc Angers ;
Steve Provost;
Audrey Gagnon;
Annie Blanchard;
Jennifer Silencieux;
Francis Greffard, from Rapide-Danseur, Qu\E9bec;
Jenny Hachey (leaves after the first gala, on September 18);
Kaven Hach\E9;
Linda Rocheleau;
St\E9phanie B\E9dard;
Marc-Andr\E9 Fortin;
Val\E9rie Boivin;
Bruno Labrie;

See also.
List of Quebec television series imports and exports;
List of Quebec television series;
List of Quebec musicians;
List of Quebec regions;
Television of Quebec;
Music of Quebec;
Culture of Quebec;
Videotron;
The One: Making a Music Star (English adaptation broadcasted on ABC and CBC);

External links.
Official site (in French);
Album entry on Amazon;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4392925" title="Polled Hereford" nonfiltered="94" processed="94" dbindex="450094">


The Polled Hereford is a breed of cattle without horns.  It is a direct relative of the Hereford breed of cattle which derive their name from their place of origin, Hereford, a county located in west England. In fact, the breed is a genetic mutation that evolved into its own breed. Occasionally, Hereford cows would produce offspring which did not develop horns. As a result, the Polled Hereford breed was born. 

Warren Gammon, a young Iowa rancher capitalized on the idea of the Polled Hereford breed and started the Polled Hereford registry with eleven naturally hornless cattle. Today, the Polled Hereford and Hereford breed has been combined under the same American Hereford Association name.

The Polled Hereford breed is bred for its deep fore-quarters, depth and muscling, docile temperament, fast growing calves, and good quality of beef.

External links.
Polled Hereford Breed Information - Cattle.com;
American Hereford Association;
The Origin and Growth of Polled Herefords - Oklahoma State University;
Hereford Info - Cattle-Today.com;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1399926" title="List of incomplete Doctor Who serials" nonfiltered="95" processed="95" dbindex="450095">
This is a list of Doctor Who serials that no longer exist in any complete form in the BBC archives. They are incomplete due to the BBC's former policy of  holding only a limited archive of episodes, and wiping tapes belonging to shows that they didn't see a potential future market in. Many other shows, such as Dad's Army and The Wednesday Play have been similarly affected. 

For a more detailed discussion of this, see Doctor Who missing episodes. 

All missing episodes from the missing William Hartnell and Patrick Troughton stories exist in audio form (thanks to fans recording them live on original broadcast) and all the audio soundtracks will have been released by the end of 2006. Also many of the stories have "tele-snaps" taken during filming which exist. The BBC has made use of these tele-snaps by recreating some lost episodes with these pictures. They can be viewed here. 

Brief excerpts from many episodes exist, some lasting as short as one second in duration. This includes 8 mm film footage taken of the television screen, censor edits, and extracts featured on other programmes, most notably Blue Peter.

Incomplete serials starring the First Doctor  (William Hartnell).



Incomplete serials starring the Second Doctor (Patrick Troughton).



Black and white only serials starring the Third Doctor (Jon Pertwee).

While all Pertwee era stories are complete, a small number exist only in black and white instead of colour. However, three of these incomplete serials (Doctor Who and the Silurians, The D\E6mons, and Terror of the Autons) were processed to merge the black and white film with off-air colour recordings by the Doctor Who Restoration Team for subsequent video release. Poor-quality off-air colour recordings of The Ambassadors of Death made from a US transmission in the 1970s exist, but the recordings are severely affected by a rainbow-coloured pattern of interference that at times overtakes the entire picture.

Although many attempts have been made to restore colour to the incomplete stories, the financial cost has proven prohibitive so far.



See also.
 Doctor Who missing episodes;
 List of Doctor Who serials;
 Doctor Who DVD releases;
 Doctor Who audio releases;
 Doctor Who Restoration Team;

External links.
Preview of 'The Ambassadors of Death' Episode 4 (restored to colour).;
The Doctor Who Audio & Video FAQ by Dominic Jackson;
The Doctor Who Restoration Team Website;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="234714" title="Medical imaging" nonfiltered="96" processed="96" dbindex="450096">
See also: Radiology, Radiography;

Medical imaging refers to the techniques and processes used to create images of the human body (or parts thereof) for clinical purposes (medical procedures seeking to reveal, diagnose or examine disease) or medical science (including the study of normal anatomy and function). As a discipline and in its widest sense, it is part of biological imaging and incorporates radiology (in the wider sense), radiological sciences, endoscopy, (medical) thermography, medical photography and microscopy (e.g. for human pathological investigations). Measurement and recording techniques which are not primarily designed to produce images, such as electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) and others, but which produce data susceptible to be represented as maps (i.e. containing positional information), can be seen as forms of medical imaging.

In the clinical context, medical imaging is generally equated to Radiology or "clinical imaging" and the medical practicer's responsible for interpreting (and sometimes acquiring) the images is a radiologist. Diagnostic radiography (see Radiography) designates the technical aspects of medical imaging and in particular the acquisition of medical images. The radiographer or radiologic technologist is usually responsible for acquiring medical images of diagnostic quality, although some radiological interventions are performed by radiologists.

As a field of scientific investigation, medical imaging constitutes a sub-discipline of biomedical engineering, medical physics or medicine depending on the context: Research and development in the area of instrumentation, image acquisition (e.g. radiography), modelling and quantification are usually the preserve of biomedical engineering, medical physics and computer science; Research into the application and interpretation of medical images is usually the preserve of radiology and the medical sub-discipline relevant to medical condition or area of medical science (neuroscience, cardiology, psychiatry, psychology, etc) under investigation. Many of the techniques developed for medical imaging also have scientific and industrial applications.

Medical imaging is often perceived to designate the set of techniques that produce images of the internal aspect of the body (without having to open it). In this restricted sense, medical imaging can be seen as the solution of mathematical inverse problems. This means that cause (the properties of living tissue) is inferred from effect (the observed signal). In the case of ultrasonography the probe consists of ultrasonic pressure waves and echoes inside the tissue show the internal structure. In the case of projection radiography, the probe is X-ray radiation which is absorbed at different rates in different tissue types such as bone, muscle and fat.

Modern imaging technology.
Fluoroscopy.


Fluoroscopy produces real-time images of internal structures of the body in a similar fashion to radiography, but employs a constant input of x rays. Contrast media, such as barium, iodine, and air are used to visualize internal organs as they work.
Fluoroscopy is also used in image-guided procedures when constant feedback during a procedure is required.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).


A Magnetic Resonance Imaging instrument (MRI scanner) uses powerful magnets to polarise and excite hydrogen nuclei (single proton)) in water molecules in human tissue, producing a detectable signal which is spatially encoded resulting in images of the body. In brief, MRI involves the use of three kinds of electromagnetic field: a very strong (of the order of units of teslas) static magnetic field to polarize the hydrogen nuclei, called the static field; a weaker time-varying (of the order of 1 kHz) for spatial encoding, called the gradient field(s); and a weak radio-frequency (RF) field for manipulation of the hydrogen nuclei to produce measurable signals, collected through an RF antenna. Like CT, MRI traditionally creates a 2D image of a thin "slice" of the body and is therefore considered a tomographic imaging technique. Modern MRI instruments are capable of producing images in the form of 3D blocks, which may be considered a generalisation of the single-slice, tomographic, concept. Unlike CT, MRI does not involve the use of ionizing radiation and is therefore not associated with the same health hazards; for example there are no known long term effects of exposure to strong static fields (this is the subject of some debate; see 'Safety' in MRI) and therefore there is no limit on the number of scans to which an individual can be subjected, in contrast with X-ray and CT. However, there are well identified health risks associated with tissue heating from exposure to the RF field and the presence of implanted devices in the body, such as pace makers. These risks are strictly controlled as part of the design of the instrument and the scanning protocols used. CT and MRI being sensitive to different properties of the tissue, the appearance of the images obtained with the two techniques differ markedly. In CT, X-rays must be blocked by some form of dense tissue to create an image, therefore the image quality when looking at soft tissues will be poor. An MRI can ONLY "see" hydrogen based objects, so bone, which is calcium based, will be a void in the image, and will not affect soft tissue views. This makes it excellent for peering into the brain and joints.

MRI, or "NMR imaging" as it was originally known, has only been in use since the early 1980's. Effects from long term, or repeated exposure, to the intense static magnetic field are not known.

Nuclear medicine.



Images from gamma cameras are used in Nuclear Medicine to detect regions of biological activity that are often associated with diseases.  A short lived isotope, such as 131I is administered to the patient.  These isotopes are more readily absorbed by biologically active regions of the body, such as tumors or fracture points in bones.

Positron emission tomography (PET).



Positron emission tomography is used to detect certain brain diseases.  Similarly to nuclear medicine, a short-lived isotope, such as 18F, is incorporated into a substance used by the body such as glucose which is absorbed by the tumor of interest.  PET scans are often viewed along side computed tomography scans, which can be performed on the same equipment without moving the patient.  This allows the tumors detected by the PET scan to be viewed next to the rest of the patient's anatomy detected by the CT scan.

Projection radiography.

Radiographs, more commonly known as x-rays, are often used to determine the type and extent of a fracture as well as for detecting pathological changes in the lungs. With the use of radio-opaque contrast media, such as barium, they can also be used to visualize the structure of the stomach and intestines - this can help diagnose ulcers or certain types of colon cancer.

Tomography.
Tomography is the method of imaging a single plane, or slice, of an object resulting in a tomogram. There are several forms of tomography:

Linear tomography: This is the most basic form of tomography. The X-ray tube moved from point "A" to point "B" above the patient, while the cassette holder (or "bucky") moves simultaneously under the patient from point "B" to point "A." The fulcrum, or pivot point, is set to the area of interest. In this manner, the points above and below the focal plane are blurred out, just as the background is blurred when panning a camera during exposure. No longer carried out and replaced by computed tomography.

Poly tomography: This was a complex form of tomography. With this technique, a number of geometrical movements were programmed, such as hypocycloidic, circular, figure 8, and elliptical. Philips Medical Systems  produced one such device called the 'Polytome.' No longer carried out, replaced by computed tomography.

Zonography: This is a variant of linear tomography, where a limited arc of movement is used. It is still used in some centres for visualising the kidney during an intravenous urogram (IVU)

Orthopantomography (OPT): The only common tomographic examination in use. This makes use of a complex movement to allow the radiographic examination of the mandible, as if it were a flat bone. It is often referred to as a "Panaray", but this is incorrect, as it is a trademark of a specific company's equipment

Computed tomography (CAT or CT): (Main article: computed tomography): A CT scan, also known as a CAT scan (Computed Axial Tomography scan), is a helical tomography (latest generation), which traditionally produces a 2D image of the structures in a thin section of the body. It uses X-rays. It has a greater ionizing radiation dose burden than projection radiography, repeated scans should be limited.

Ultrasound.


Medical ultrasonography uses high frequency sound waves of between 2.0 to 10.0 megahertz that are reflected by tissue to varying degrees to produce a 2D image, traditionally on a TV monitor. This is often used to visualize the fetus in pregnant women. Other important uses include imaging the abdominal organs, heart, male genitalia, and the veins of the leg. While it may provide less anatomical information than techniques such as CT or MRI, it has several advantages which make it ideal as a first line test in numerous situations, in particular that it studies the function of moving structures in real-time. It is also very safe to use, as the patient is not exposed to radiation and the ultrasound does not appear to cause any adverse effects, although information on this is not well documented. It is also relatively cheap and quick to perform. Ultrasound scanners can be taken to critically ill patients in intensive care units, avoiding the danger caused while moving the patient to the radiology department. The real time moving image obtained can be used to guide drainage and biopsy procedures. Doppler capabilities on modern scanners allow the blood flow in arteries and veins to be assessed.

Clinical imaging or biological imaging techniques.
Electron microscopy.

The electron microscope is a microscope that can magnify very small details with high resolving power due to the use of electrons as the source of illumination, magnifying at levels up to 2,000,000 times.

Electron microscopy is employed in anatomic pathology to identify organelles within the cells. Its usefulness has been greatly reduced by immunhistochemistry but it is still irreplaceable for the diagnosis of kidney disease, identification of immotile cilia syndrome and many other tasks

Creation of three-dimensional images.
Recently, techniques have been developed to enable CT, MRI and ultrasound scanning software to produce 3D images for the physician. Traditionally CT and MRI scans produced 2D static output on film. To produce 3D images, many scans are made, then combined by computers to produce a 3D model, which can then be manipulated by the physician. 3D ultrasounds are produced using a somewhat similar technique.

With the ability to visualize important structures in great detail, 3D visualization methods are a valuable resource for the diagnosis and surgical treatment of many pathologies. It was a key resource (and also the cause of failure) for the famous, but ultimately unsuccessful attempt by Singaporean surgeons to separate Iranian twins Ladan and Laleh Bijani in 2003. The 3D equipment was used previously for similar operations with great success.

Other proposed or developed techniques include:

diffuse optical tomography;
elastography;
electrical impedance tomography;
optoacoustic imaging;
ophthalmology;
A-scan;
B-scan;
corneal topography;
Heidelberg retinal tomography;
optical coherence tomography;
scanning laser ophthalmoscopy;

Some of these techniques are still at a research stage and not yet used in clinical routines.

Non-diagnostic imaging.
Neuroimaging has also been used in experimental circumstances to allow people (especially disabled persons) to control outside devices, acting as a brain computer interface.

Medical imaging service.
 This is a specialized area of medical equipment service and repair, which is separate from the biomedical field, although a hospital with their own service group may include them in the biomed department.

At one time, there were only two ways to receive training for this field. One was to learn it in the military, and the other was on-the-job training (OJT) from the manufacturer. But since the 1980's several independent training centers have been started. One such school is RSTI .

There are different means of employment in this occupation. Working for the manufacturer's field service department (OEM), working for a hospital (in-house), and working for an independent (outside, or independent provider). The most stable positions are with the OEM or hospital, as you can remain current through on-going training, and the two have good working relationships.

The OEM service engineer can expect to spend a lot of time driving from one site to another during the work day, and working non-standard hours. They will install, remove, diagnose, repair, calibrate, perform preventive maintenance, and interface equipment, all while ensuring good customer relations. You may also be required to do yearly testing of the radiation sources for Federal  and State compliance.

The in-house person is employed by the hospital. With larger medical facilities, travel between the hospitals' other locations may be required to perform the required services. You may also be required to do yearly testing of the radiation sources for compliance. The OEM or independent will provide installation of purchased equipment, and can be used for back-up service.

An independent is typically someone who has left an OEM, and started their own service business. Staying up-to-date as an independent can be difficult and expensive, as the OEM is usually reluctant to provide training. However, non-OEM training facilities are available, such as the aforementioned RSTI. Competition for service can be aggressive, with OEM's giving hospitals or clinics a reduction in equipment purchase price if they retain some form of OEM service.

The independent may also sell and install refurbished equipment, or de-install equipment. They will repair, calibrate, and perform preventative maintenance. Because many of the tasks associated with imaging service require expensive, specialized equipment, there may be a financial limit to the independent. Typical equipment used routinely are a Storage Oscilloscope and multimeter (if servicing old vacuum-state equipment, a VOM would be helpful). Additional equipment: Keithley dosimeter, mAs meter, Biddle contact tachometer, light to radiation template, etc.

See also.
 Medical test;
 Medical examination;
 PACS;
 Tomogram;
 Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (image format) ;
 Biomedical informatics;
 Segmentation (image processing);
 Medical image analysis;
 Signal-to-noise ratio;
 Medical radiography;

External links.
 Curriculum In Radiology Reporting - Funded by RSNA WWW Education Grant;
Medical Imaging Portal Diagnostic imaging portal with sections on a variety of topics - MRI, NM, US, CT, Radiography, Bone Densitometry and more. ;
Imaging-Centers.com is the first searchable directory of medical imaging centers across the United States.
 Sumer's Radiology Site - A radiology blog working as an online radiology magazine;
 Radiology Journal;
 Nuclear Medicine Information;
 Daily Medical Imaging News and Information;
 Cardiovascular and Interventional Radiological Society of Europe;
 Medicalimaging.org offers info from peer-reviewed journals on economic and clinical value of medical imaging;
 Sg2 Healthcare Intelligence - Imaging Program;
 Medicexchange - Downloadable access to medical imaging software and related clinical research and developments.
 Medical Imaging News - gathers headlines daily on medical imaging and its major modalities.
 Laboratory of Neuro Imaging at UCLA - the premier research lab for neuroimaging data analysis and visualization;














ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3975069" title="2000 US Open - Men's Singles" nonfiltered="97" processed="97" dbindex="450097">
Below you'll find the results, starting from the fourth round, of the Men's Singles Competition at the 2000 US Open, which started on Monday August 28, 2000 on Flushing Meadows in New York.

Fourth Round.
 Arnaud Clement (FRA)          def. Andrei Pavel (ROM)              3-6 6-2 6-1
 
 Lleyton Hewitt (AUS)       def. Thomas Enqvist (SWE)         6-3 6-2 6-4
 
 Pete Sampras (USA)         def. Hyung-Taik Lee (KOR)         7-6  6-2 6-4
 
 Richard Krajicek (NED)        def. Dominik Hrbat\FD (SVK)            7-6  6-4 6-1
 
 Marat Safin (RUS)          def. Juan Carlos Ferrero (ESP)   6-1 6-2 6-2
 
 Nicolas Kiefer (GER)      def. Magnus Norman (SWE)          6-2 6-7  6-1 6-3
 
 Todd Martin (USA)             def. Carlos Moya (ESP)               6-7  6-7  6-1 7-6  6-2
 
 Thomas Johansson (SWE)        def. Wayne Arthurs (AUS)          6-4 6-7  6-3 6-4

Quarterfinals.
 Lleyton Hewitt (AUS)       def. Arnaud Clement (FRA)            6-2 6-4 6-3
 
 Pete Sampras (USA)         def. Richard Krajicek (NED)          4-6 7-6  6-4 6-2
 
 Marat Safin (RUS)          def. Nicolas Kiefer (GER)        7-5 4-6 7-6  6-3
 
 Todd Martin (USA)             def. Thomas Johansson (SWE)          6-4 6-4 3-6 7-5

Semifinals.
 Pete Sampras (USA)         def. Lleyton Hewitt (AUS)         7-6  6-4 7-6 
 
 Marat Safin (RUS)          def. Todd Martin (USA)               6-3 7-6  7-6 

Final.
 Marat Safin (RUS)          def. Pete Sampras (USA)           6-4 6-3 6-3

* Q = Qualifier
* WC = Wild Card
* LL = Lucky Loser

See also.
 2000 Women's Singles;
 2000 Men's Doubles;
 2000 Women's Doubles;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7685054" title="California Cup Matron" nonfiltered="98" processed="98" dbindex="450098">
The California Cup Matron Handicap is one of 11 races (10 of which are stakes races run at Santa Anita Park in Arcadia, California during its Oak Tree Racing Association meet in the fall of the year.  These 11 California Cup races run on  California Cup Day,  (now in their 39th year - 2006) are intended to call attention to, and to honor, the California Thoroughbred racing and breeding industry.

These races are for horses bred in the "Golden State."

The California Cup Matron (sponsored by TOC/CTT) is set at one and one/sixteenth mile on the dirt and is open to fillies and mares three years old and up.  It offers a purse of $150,000 and a trophy.  

Winners.

 2006 - Somethinaboutlaura ;
 2005   Dream of Summer;
 2004 - ;
 2003   Royally Chosen;
 2002 - Super High;
 2001 - Cee Dreams;
 2000 - Queenie Belle;
 1999 - Feverish;
 1998 - Belle's Flag;
 1997 - Fun in Excess;
 1996 - Belle's Flag;
 1995 - Yearly Tour;
 1994 - Glass Ceiling;
 1993 - Sensational Eyes;
 1992 - Lovely Habit;
 1990 - Not Run;

External links.

 Oak Tree racing meet at Santa Anita;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1253063" title="\C4lvsj\F6 borough" nonfiltered="99" processed="99" dbindex="450099">
\C4lvsj\F6 borough is located in the southern part of Stockholm. The borough is divided into the districts Herr\E4ngen, L\E5ngbro, \C4lvsj\F6, Solberga, \D6rby Slott and Liseberg. It has about 21000 inhabitants.

 




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3992941" title="Nafka mina" nonfiltered="100" processed="100" dbindex="450100">
 
Nafka Mina (aramaic:          ) is a Talmudic term which means practical difference. It is often used in the phrase Mai nafka mina?(             ), which means "What is the practical (or most important) difference?"

It literally means "goes out from it" - indicating that in a distinction between conceptual categories, there must be some practical effect that emerges from the distinct categories as conceived.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1359536" title="Code Aster" nonfiltered="101" processed="101" dbindex="450101">
Code_Aster is free software for Finite element analysis.

 Development .

Originally, the program was developed as an in-house application by the French company EDF, it was released as free software under the terms of the GNU General Public License, in October 2001.

 Features .
 Availability .
Code_Aster is officially available for GNU/Linux operating systems.
A successful port to Microsoft Windows has been reported.

 External links .
Official site;
PcLinuxOsAster  Linux distribution dedicated to Code_Aster;
CAELinux  Linux distribution of a live-CD including Code_Aster and Salom\E9 (open-source CAE software);




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1697978" title="Louis-Joseph Seutin" nonfiltered="102" processed="102" dbindex="450102">
Louis Joseph Seutin (1793-February 6, 1862) was a Belgian doctor and surgeon.

Born in Nivelles, he studied medicine and took part in the Battle of Waterloo as a doctor. After the Independence of Belgium in 1830, he became the personal doctor of king Leopold I and Head Doctor of the Belgian army. He was later made a baron for his services. He became a senator in 1853. 

He invented the use of starched bandages and, in 1848, was the first to use chloroform for anaesthesia. His treatment of open fractures was revolutionary. By improving hygiene, he also drastically reduced the number of women who died in childbirth.

He died in Brussels.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6017243" title="Song to General Kim Jong-il" nonfiltered="103" processed="103" dbindex="450103">
The Song to General Kim Jong-il is a marching song from North Korea. The song praises its current leader, Kim Jong-il, as a part of his cult of personality. During the Presidency of Kim Il-sung, Kim Jong-il helped to run his father's own personal cult, composing songs and writing books. One such famous song was Song of General Kim Il-sung, which is usually played wherever possible. At the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, now the leader of North Korea, had his own cult. Although the Song to General Kim Jong-il is not as widely popular as the Song of General Kim Il-sung (nor was his cult as large as his father's), it is also played regularly in North Korea.

See also.
 List of Korea-related topics;

 External links .

Lyrics (in English)
 http://www.kcckp.net/en/art/music/hymn.php?a+2;

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8052654" title="Xiamen Post & Telecommunications Building" nonfiltered="104" processed="104" dbindex="450104">

Xiamen Post & Telecommunications Building is a 66 floor tall office skyscraper under construction at Hubin Road South / Xiahe Road at Xiamen, China. It will be 364 metres tall to the top of the spire and 249.7 metres without the spire. Construction is currently suspended.

External link.
 Skyscraperpage.com;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7133207" title="Farm to Market Road 677" nonfiltered="105" processed="105" dbindex="450105">




Farm to Market Road 677 or FM 677, one of the longest farm to market roads in Montague County, Texas, is a two-lane, state-maintained highway that connects Forestburg, Texas with Love County, Oklahoma at the Taovoyas bridge on the Red River in northern Montague County.  FM 677 intersects U.S. Route 82, Farm to Market Road 2953, Farm to Market Road 373, Farm to Market Road 1630, and terminates at Farm to Market Road 455 near Forestburg. 

Distance: 34.368 miles (55 kilometers);
Counties: Montague;

Termini.
State Highway 89 at the border between Texas and Oklahoma and Farm to Market Road 455 near Forestburg.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6508693" title="Dave Walder" nonfiltered="106" processed="106" dbindex="450106">
David John Hume Walder (born 7 May 1978 in Newcastle) is a rugby union footballer who plays at fly-half for Wasps. He joined London Wasps from Newcastle Falcons in the summer of 2006,and played a big part in his debut win, against Saracens.
 External links .

 statistics from scrum.com;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7561103" title="ARIA Music Awards of 2006" nonfiltered="107" processed="107" dbindex="450107">


The 20th Annual Australian Recording Industry Association Music Awards (generally known as ARIA Music Awards or simply The ARIAS) were held on October 29, 2006 at the Acer Arena at the Sydney Olympic Park complex, thus continuing the previous year's innovation of televising the awards on Sunday evening. Presenters on the night included James Mathison, Johnny Knoxville,  Jesse McCartney and John Mayer.

Axle Whitehead controversy.
While Video Hits host Axle Whitehead and Nova 96.9 radio personality Jabba were presenting the awards for highest selling single and album, Whitehead exposed his penis in front of an audience of up to 10,000. Whitehead also simulated masturbation on the ARIA trophy as the winners made their way to the stage. He announced three days after the awards that he had resigned from Network Ten. The incident was removed from the telecast of the awards.

Nominations and Awards.
In the following lists of nominations the winners are highlighted in bold.

ARIA Awards.
Album of the Year;
Augie March - Moo, You Bloody Choir ;
Bernard Fanning - Tea and Sympathy ;
Eskimo Joe - Black Fingernails, Red Wine ;
The Sleepy Jackson - Personality, One Was a Spider, One Was a Bird;
Wolfmother - Wolfmother ;

Single of the Year;
Augie March - "One Crowded Hour";
Bernard Fanning - "Watch Over Me";
Eskimo Joe - "Black Fingernails, Red Wine";
Wolfmother - "Mind's Eye";
Youth Group - "Forever Young";

Best Female Artist;
Clare Bowditch - What Was Left ;
Holly Throsby - Under the Town ;
Jade MacRae - Jade MacRae ;
Jen Cloher - Dead Wood Falls ;
Kasey Chambers - Nothing At All ;

Best Male Artist;
Bernard Fanning - Tea and Sympathy ;
Ben Lee - We're All In This Together ;
Bob Evans - Suburban Songbook ;
Dan Kelly & The Alpha Males - Pirate Radio ;
Pete Murray - See the Sun ;

Best Group;
Augie March - Moo, You Bloody Choir ;
Eskimo Joe - Black Fingernails, Red Wine ;
Rogue Traders - Here Come the Drums ;
The Living End - State of Emergency ;
Wolfmother - Wolfmother ;

Highest Selling Single;
Kate DeAraugo - "Maybe Tonight";
Lee Harding - "Wasabi";
Shannon Noll - "Shine";
TV Rock featuring Seany B - "Flaunt It";
Youth Group - "Forever Young";

Highest Selling Album;
Bernard Fanning - Tea and Sympathy;
Human Nature - Reach Out: The Motown Album;
Pete Murray - See the Sun;
Rogue Traders - Here Come the Drums;
The Veronicas - The Secret Life Of...;

Best Breakthrough Artist (Single);
Gyroscope - "Fast Girl";
Hilltop Hoods - "Clown Prince";
Sneaky Sound System - "I Love It";
TV Rock feat. Seany B - "Flaunt It";
Starky - "Hey Bang Bang";
Youth Group - "Forever Young";

Best Breakthrough Artist (Album);
Hilltop Hoods - The Hard Road;
Rogue Traders - Here Come the Drums;
The Grates - Gravity Won't Get You High;
The Veronicas - The Secret Life Of...;
Wolfmother - Wolfmother;

Best Independent Release;
Ben Lee - We're All In This Together;
Gotye - Like Drawing Blood;
Hilltop Hoods - The Hard Road;
John Butler Trio - Live At St Gallen;
Lior - Doorways of My Mind;

Best Adult Contemporary Album;
Bob Evans - Suburban Songbook;
Human Nature - Reach Out: The Motown Record;
Tex, Don & Charlie - All Is Forgiven;
The Whitlams - Little Cloud;
Various Artists - She Will Have Her Way: The Songs of Tim & Neil Finn;

Best Pop Release;
Ben Lee - Into the Dark;
Josh Pyke - Feeding The Wolves;
Rogue Traders - Here Come the Drums;
Shannon Noll - Lift;
The Veronicas - The Secret Life Of...;

Best Rock Album;
Augie March - Moo, You Bloody Choir;
Eskimo Joe - Black Fingernails, Red Wine;
The Living End - State of Emergency;
Wolfmother - Wolfmother;
You Am I - Convicts;

Best Dance Release;
Dirty South - Dirty South EP;
Paul Mac - Panic Room;
Sneaky Sound System - I Love It;
The Presets - Beams;
TV Rock feat. Seany B - Flaunt It;

Best Urban Release;
Bliss N Eso - Up Jumped the Boogie ;
Hilltop Hoods - The Hard Road ;
Jade MacRae - Jade MacRae ;
Phrase - Talk With Force ;
Weapon X And Ken Hell - Sneakerpimpin' Ain't Easy ;

Best Country Album;
Adam Brand - What a Life;
Anne Kirkpatrick - Showman's Daughter ;
Catherine Britt - Too Far Gone ;
Lee Kernaghan - The New Bush ;
Troy Cassar-Daley - Brighter Day ;

Best Blues and Roots Album;
Bernard Fanning - Tea and Sympathy ;
Lior - Doorways of My Mind ;
The Audreys - Between Last Night and Us ;
The Flood - The Late Late Show ;
Xavier Rudd - Food in the Belly ;

Best Children's Album;
Hi-5 - Wish Upon a Star ;
Justine Clarke - I Like to Sing! ;
The Fairies - Fairy Magic ;
The Hooley Dooleys - Smile ;
The Wiggles - Racing to the Rainbow ;

Best Comedy Release;
Carl Barron - Whatever Comes Next DVD ;
Lano and Woodley - Sing Songs ;
Matt Tilley - Cereal Pest ;
The Shambles - Best Of Series One & Two ;

Best Music DVD;
Hilltop Hoods - The Calling Live ;
Eskimo Joe - The Eskimo Joe DVD ;
Kylie Minogue - Showgirl: The Greatest Hits Tour ;
Missy Higgins - If You Tell Me Yours, I'll Tell You Mine ;
The Go-Betweens - That Striped Sunlight Sound ;

Channel  Oz Artist of the Year:
Eskimo Joe ;
Rogue Traders;
The Veronicas;
Wolfmother;

Artisan Awards.
Best Cover Art;
Alison Smith and Chris Cheney for The Living End - State of Emergency;
Dane Lovett and Dave Snow for Eskimo Joe - Black Fingernails, Red Wine;
Debaser for Bernard Fanning - "Wish You Well";
Luke Steele, James Bellesini at Love Police for The Sleepy Jackson - Personality - One Was a Spider, One Was a Bird ;
The Grates for The Grates - Gravity Won't Get You High;

Engineer of the Year;
Adam Rhodes for The Cat Empire - Cities The Cat Empire Project;
Matt Lovell for Eskimo Joe - Black Fingernails, Red Wine ;
Nick Launay for The Living End - State of Emergency;
Paul McKercher for Augie March - The Cold Acre, Victoria's Secrets, Stranger;
Wayne Connolly for The Vines - Vision Valley;

Best Video;
Andy Cassell for Youth Group - "Forever Young";
Bart Borghessi for Eskimo Joe - "Black Fingernails, Red Wine";
Head Pictures for Bernard Fanning - "Wish You Well";
Kim Moyes for The Presets - "Are You the One";
Sean Gilligan and Sarah-Jane Woulahan for The Living End - "Wake Up";

Producer of the Year;
Eskimo Joe for Eskimo Joe -  Black Fingernails, Red Wine ;
Lindsay Gravina and Magic Dirt for Magic Dirt - Snow White;
Nick Launay for The Living End - State of Emergency;
Paul McKercher for Augie March - The Cold Acre, Victoria's Secrets, Stranger;
Wayne Connolly for Youth Group - Casino Twilight Dogs;

Awards for Fine Arts.
Best World Music Album;
Joseph And James Tawadros - Visions ;
Mara - Sorella ;
Pigram Brothers - Under The Mango Tree ;
Seaman Dan - Island Way ;
The Cat Empire - Cities: The Cat Empire Project ;

Best Jazz Album;
Don Burrows, The Mell-O-Tones, Phillip Sametz - Non-Stop Flight - Great Music of the Swing Era ;
James Muller - Kaboom ;
Mark Sholtez - Real Street ;
Paul Grabowsky, Bernie McGann - Always ;
The Necks - Chemist ;

Best Soundtrack / Cast / Show Recording;
David Bridie - RAN ;
Francois Tetaz - Wolf Creek ;
Nick Cave and Warren Ellis - The Proposition ;
Paul Kelly, Dan Luscombe, Katie Brianna & the Stormwater Boys - Jindabyne Soundtrack ;
Various - Little Fish Soundtrack;

Best Classical Album;
Amelia Farrugia - Joie De Vivre;
Nikki Vaskilakis violin, Tasmanian Symphony Orchestra, Sebastian Lang-Lessing conductor - Mendelssohn, Bruch, Ravel ;
Richard Tognetti - Bach Sonatas and Partitas for Solo Violin ;
Simon Tedeschi piano, The Queensland Orchestra, Richard Bonynge conductor - Piano Concertos: Tchaikovsky, Grieg;
Slava and Leonard Grigoryan guitars - The Queensland Orchestra - Brett Kelly conductor - Rodrigo Guitar Concertos;

Hall of Fame Inductees.
The following artists were inducted into to ARIA Hall of Fame:
Midnight Oil;
Divinyls;
Rose Tattoo;
Helen Reddy;
Daddy Cool;
Icehouse;
Lobby Loyde;

Performers.
The following artists performed on stage during the 2006 ARIA Awards:
Wolfmother;
Eskimo Joe;
The Veronicas ;
Human Nature;
Hilltop Hoods;
Silverchair;
Youth Group;
Pete Murray (featuring John Mayer);
Bernard Fanning (featuring Kasey Chambers and Clare Bowditch);

See also.
Australian music;
List of Australian musicians;
Australian rock;

References.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5643103" title="Ferroq" nonfiltered="108" processed="108" dbindex="450108">
 
Ferroq is a fictional character from the The Legend of Zorro. He was played by Raul Mendez. Ferroq had served as a butler and a loyal henchman for Count Armand. For the most part he was a very silent man who only spoke when necessary, and was always ready for a fight, armed with a switchblade of unique design: two elegant, overlapping crescent blades, sharp enough to gut a man with ease. According to the "Legend of Zorro Movie Novelization" (by Scott Ciencin), he is quite a sick character who quote: "has the desire to "take one's blade and unzip another person from throat to groin" (referring to Elena de la Vega, Alejandro/Zorro's wife). Ferroq serves Count Armand for, when young, he was attacked by a group of three knife-weilding thugs, and the Count, also young at the time, had interveined and risked a stabbing to save Ferroq's life. Armand had given him the choice to either: a) work for him, serve him, be ever-faithful to him (as it turns out his family had for generations, and that's the only reason the Count jumped into the fight) or, b) live a life on the filthy streets of back-alley Paris. Armand believed Ferroq was forever destined to call him "master", because, after looking back into the de la Fere history books, he found references to Ferroq's ancestors and had spent much effort trying to find him.

 Story .

Unlike Count Armand, Ferroq spent most of his time lurking behind the scenes, but he would attend to his master's every whim when needed. Wherever Armand went, Ferroq wasn't very far behind. To most, he was just a simple butler. But in the eyes of the De la Vegas, he was a deadly assasin. After Elena's true identity was discovered, Ferroq made sure that all possible means of escape were covered. He is the one who actually uncovered the plot, by following the pidgeon Elena sent to the Pinkertons. Killing the pidgeon and bringing the bodies of the Pinkertons back to prove his point, he convinced Armand of his near-fatal error and plotted to trap Alejandro's ex-wife. He then escorted her onto Armand's train, while Jacob MicGivens took care of Zorro. When Zorro escaped death and boarded the train as well, Armand gave Ferroq the command to kill Elena and her son while he took care of the intruder.

 Prevention .

Ferroq pursued Elena and her son to the end of the train, but Zorro's son managed to escape with Elena's help. Elena then went back into the train only to face Ferroq. There was a fierce fight inside that one car. Elena managed to keep herself clear of Ferroq's switchblade. She even managed to knock it out of his hand for a moment. Ferroq acted swiftly after Elena disarmed him. He pulled a metal chain with a spike ball out of his coat pocket, and then tried to kill her with that instead. After Ferroq recovered his deadly switchblade, Elena got the upperhand. She took a bottle of Nitroglycerine and held it in front of her. Ferroq did not attempt to run her through because of this. She then kicked him in the chest, stuffed the bottle into his pants, and knocked him out of the train. Ferroq landed in a circle of Confederate troops, who were going to transport the Nitro to the east, and all of them blew up in a violent explosion that shook the entire desert.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2836692" title="Posh Boy Records" nonfiltered="109" processed="109" dbindex="450109">
Posh Boy Records was a Hollywood, California based record label owned by Robbie Fields, a sometime high school substitute teacher who took an interest in the emerging punk rock scene in Orange County, California during the early 1980s. Its releases enjoyed substantial airplay on Rodney Bingenheimer's show on KROQ, and some of its releases,  notably the Robbie Fields produced version of Amoeba by The Adolesecents and the synth rock classic Are You Ready For The Sex Girls performed by Sparks offshoot Gleaming Spires and produced by Stephen Hague, made it into regular programming on the station. Among many bands whose first recordings were issued by the label was Social Distortion.  The label continued releasing records into the 21st century, the last known release being a 7" release by yet another Orange County, California group 
The Willowz.  Its most successful release is commonly agreed to be Agent Orange's debut Living In Darkness, containing the extreme sports anthem Bloodstains, a song covered by many alternative groups, the most notable being The Offspring for the Ready To Rumble film soundtrack.  
 
Bands/Artists.
 The Crowd;
 Gl\FC Gun;
 The Nuns;
 Simpletones;
 Social Distortion;
 Agent Orange (band);

 See also .
 List of record labels;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3338339" title="9rules Network" nonfiltered="110" processed="110" dbindex="450110">


The 9rules Network is a network, or group, of blogs. They strongly focus on regularly updated, well-written content rather than on design.

9rules took home the award for Best Community Site of the Year at SXSWi 2006 in Austin, Texas.

9rules is currently made up of over 30 communities divided by topics such as Gaming, Apple, Web Design and Web 2.0.  They have over 200 members, each hand-picked out of thousands that apply to join.  Every 4-5 months they have a new membership round that allows bloggers 24-hours to submit their blog.  Their fifth membership round attracted 1,190 new submissions.

 External links .

The 9rules Network;
10 Questions with Mike Rundle on 9rules;
Interview with 9rules co-founder Paul "Scrivs" Scrivens;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1424181" title="British Columbia general election, 1903" nonfiltered="111" processed="111" dbindex="450111">
The British Columbia general election of 1903 was the tenth general election for the Province of British Columbia, Canada. It was held to elect members of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia. The election was called on September 5 1903, and held on October 3 1903. The new legislature met for the first time on November 26 1903.

This was the first election in British Columbia that was fought by political parties. Prior to this election, British Columbia politics were non-partisan.

The first election was dominated by the Conservative and Liberal parties, which were affiliated with existing parties at the federal level. See Conservative Party of Canada and Liberal Party of Canada.

The Conservative Party won over 46.4% of the popular vote and a slim majority of the seats in the legislature.

Results by party.



Notes:

* Party did not nominate candidates in the previous election.

1 The Conservative Party and the Liberal Party each elected one candidate by acclamation.

2 There was no provincial "Labour Party" as such. Each of the three Electoral Districts with a Labour candidate (Nanaimo, Slocan, and Vancouver City) had a local, autonomous Labour Party. As well, some Liberal candidates appear to have run on a "Liberal-Labour" platform (Atlin, Victoria and Ymir).

Results by riding.



|-
||    
|align="center"|Henry Esson Young
|align="center"  |AtlinConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |AlberniLiberal
|align="center"|William Wallace Burns McInnes
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Robert Grant
|align="center"  |ComoxConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |CaribooLiberal
|align="center"|Harry Jones
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Richard McBride1
|align="center"  |DewdneyConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |CaribooLiberal
|align="center"|James Murphy
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Charles Edward Pooley
|align="center"  |EsquimaltConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |ChilliwhackLiberal
|align="center"|Charles William Munro
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|William Roderick Ross
|align="center"  |FernieConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |ColumbiaLiberal
|align="center"|Wilmer Cleveland Wells
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|George Arthur Fraser
|align="center"  |Grand ForksConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |CowichanLiberal
|align="center"|John Newell Evans
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Frederick John Fulton
|align="center"  |KamloopsConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |CranbrookLiberal
|align="center"|James Horace King
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Robert Francis Green
|align="center"  |KasloConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |DeltaLiberal
|align="center"|John Oliver
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|John Houston
|align="center"  |Nelson CityConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |GreenwoodLiberal
|align="center"|John Robert Brown
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Thomas Gifford
|align="center"  |New Westminster CityConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |The IslandsLiberal
|align="center"|Thomas Wilson Paterson2
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Price Ellison
|align="center"  |OkanaganConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |Rossland CityLiberal
|align="center"|James Alexander MacDonald
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Thomas Taylor
|align="center"  |RevelstokeConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |SaanichLiberal
|align="center"|Henry Ernest Tanner
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Francis Lovett Carter-Cotton
|align="center"  |RichmondConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"  |SlocanLiberal
|align="center"|William Davidson
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Lytton Wilmot Shatford
|align="center"  |SimilkameenConservative
||    
||    
|align="center" rowspan=4 |Victoria CityLiberal
|align="center"|William George Cameron
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Charles William Digby Clifford
|align="center"  |SkeenaConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"|Robert Low Drury
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Charles William John Bowser
|align="center" rowspan=5 |Vancouver CityConservative
||    
||    
|align="center"|Richard Hall
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|James Ford Garden
||    
||    
|align="center"|James Dugald McNiven
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Alexander Henry Boswell MacGowan
||    
||    
|align="center"  |YaleLiberal
|align="center"|Stuart Alexander Henderson
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Robert Garnet Tatlow
||    
||    
|align="center"  |Nanaimo CitySocialist
|align="center"|James Hurst Hawthornthwaite
||    
|-
||    
|align="center"|Charles Wilson
||    
||    
|align="center"  |NewcastleSocialist
|align="center"|Parker Williams
||    
|-

|-
||    
|align="center"|Harry Wright
|align="center"  |YmirConservative
||    
|
|align="center"  |
|align="center"|
|-
|
|align="center"|1  Premier-Elect
|-
|
|
|align="center"|2  Leader of the Opposition
|-
| align="center" colspan="10"|Source: Elections BC
|-
|}

See also.
List of British Columbia political parties;
 
Further reading & references.

In the Sea of Sterile Mountains: The Chinese in British Columbia, Joseph Morton, J.J. Douglas, Vancouver (1974).  Despite its title, a fairly thorough account of the politicians and electoral politics in early BC.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6510600" title="Rohit loomba" nonfiltered="112" processed="112" dbindex="450112">

 


Rohit Loomba is a hip hop journalist based in Chicago, IL. Rohit founded Chinatown Productions with his partner, Mike Li, in 2004. Chinatown Productions has since become the entertainment company through which both Rohit and Mike have launched various hip hop oriented projects. Rohit is currently Editor-In-Chief of Bumsquad Magazine (the official magazine of the popular hip hop DJ Crew, the Bumsquad DJz), staff at the heavily trafficked ezine allhiphop, contributing editor for WWS Magazine, and a writer for Ozone Magazine. 

Bumsquad Magazine.
Rohit has interviewed artists such as Paul Wall, Chamillionaire, Papoose, Mobb Deep, Juelz Santana, and Ludacris for Bumsquad Magazine which he founded in association with the Bumsquad DJz. The debut issue of Bumsquad Magazine found Papoose and Chamillionaire on the covers. In an online interview Rohit briefly mentioned that his harsh criticism of Papoose in the debut issue triggered a less than pleasant response from DJ Kay Slay who works closely with the New York emcee. It was made clear that words were exchanged but the extent of the dispute wasn't mentioned further.

Allhiphop.
Rohit is also staff at Allhiphop.com for which he has interviewed Shawnna, Paul Wall, Trae, and others. In his allhiphop feature on Paul Wall, the popular Houston emcee and Jeweler discussed his trip to Sierra Leone in great detail, commenting on the realities of the diamond trade and the issues surrounding conflict diamonds. The feature was given much attention by fans while some felt that the emcee displayed hypocrisy by continuing to sell and wear diamonds even despite having seen what he described. In his interview with Scarface, Rohit found the legendary southern emcee discussing his exploration of the Islamic Faith as well as the importance of keeping your business straight.
Pitbull Feature ;
Shawnna Feature ;
Paul Wall Feature ;
Trae Feature ;
Scarface ;

Ozone Magazine.
As a writer for Ozone Magazine, Rohit has written features on and conducted interviews with the likes of Jermaine Dupri, Twista, and Lupe Fiasco. Rohit's feature on Jermaine Dupri was part of Ozone Magazine's Top 25 Southern Emcees issue which was done in conjunction with MTV 2 which aired a show coinciding with the issue. Dupri was number 25 on the list for his numerous accomplishments. Rohit's feature on Twista for the January 2006 issue was a cover story in which the rapid fire emcee talked about his then new album The Day After and the absence of Kanye West production on it.

Artists Rohit has covered in Ozone (may not be a complete list):
Stat Quo;
Twista;
Lupe Fiasco;
Versatile;
112;
Do or Die;
BG;
Ghosftace;
Lloyd Banks;
Mobb Deep;
Pitch Black;
Belo;
Mobb Deep;

Platinum Entrepreneur.
Rohit also contributed to emcee Camron's start up magazine Platinum Entrepreneur with an interview with jeweler Avianne. 

Various E Zines.
Rohit has also contributed to several other popular E zines such as hiphopgame.com  and nobodysmiling.com .

WIIT.
Rohit was Station Manager of 88.9 FM WIIT, a college radio station in Chicago. As Station Manager of WIIT, Rohit brought in several new shows. Under Rohit's management Atlantic recording artist Lupe Fiasco hosted FNF Radio on Monday nights. The show drew listeners internationally via the station's webstream and local listeners through the airwaves. Several on air interviews were conducted with well known artists on the station's hip hop shows and in studio appearances were made by artists such as Little Brother and Rick Ross.  In the summer of 2006, approximately after one year of being Station Manager, Rohit left the station for undisclosed reasons. 

Other Projects.
Rohit also works closely with Chicago emcee Twista and has been seen with the emcee at many of his Chicago appearances. Rohit has written many articles and has done detailed tour coverage for the popular midwest emcee as well.


List of Print Publications Written For.
 Bumsquad Magazine;
 Ozone Magazine;
 WWS Magazine;
 Insomniac Magazine;
 Crunk Magazine;
 New Power Magazine;
 Hoodgrown Magazine;

List of Online Publications Written For.
 Allhiphop ;
 Off Tha Chain ;
 HipHopGame ;
 NobodySmiling ;
I-Jonez ;



External links.
BumSquad DJz;
All HipHop;

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3307571" title="Bowdoin National Wildlife Refuge" nonfiltered="113" processed="113" dbindex="450113">

Bowdoin National Wildlife Refuge is located in the U.S. state of Montana. Bowdoin NWR was established in 1936 as a migratory bird refuge.  It is located in the short and mixed grass prairie region of North-central Montana and encompasses 15,551 acres.  The Refuge lies about 7 miles northeast of Malta in the Milk River Valley of Phillips County.  Managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bowdoin is one of over 540 refuges in the National Wildlife Refuge System - a system of lands set aside to conserve wildlife and habitat and as a place for people to enjoy today and for generations to come.  

Bowdoin National Wildlife Refuge's primary purpose is to preserve and enhance resting, feeding, and breeding habitat for migratory birds and other wildlife.  The Refuge attracts migrating waterfowl and shorebirds by the thousands and provides breeding and nesting habitat for ducks, geese, grassland songbirds, and colonial nesting water birds.  The area is equally important to a variety of resident wildlife, including raptors, white-tailed deer, pronghorn antelope, sharp-tailed grouse, and coyotes.  Threatened species using the Refuge include the bald eagle and piping plover and on occasion peregrine falcons.

North-central Montana is made up of many depressional wetlands created by glaciers 12,000 years ago.  Although geologic history indicates that Lake Bowdoin was once an oxbow of the pre-glacial Missouri River channel, today the Missouri River lies nearly 70 miles south of Bowdoin NWR.  Major habitat types on the Refuge include saline and freshwater wetlands, native prairie, planted dense nesting cover and shrubs.  Refuge wetlands total 7,226 acres with the remaining habitat consisting of uplands.  

External links.
 ;
 ;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8756392" title="Endicott College School of Education" nonfiltered="114" processed="114" dbindex="450114">


=School of Education=

The Education programs in Early Childhood (PreK   Grade 2) and Elementary (Grades 1-6) Education are dedicated to the Endicott mission of combining theory and practice. Toward this end, the programs offer an undergraduate curriculum that combines rigorous coursework with extensive classroom experience. All Education students complete the Liberal Studies major, which provides them with a knowledge base in the arts and sciences. Within the Liberal Studies major, coursework in either Early Childhood (PreK   Grade 2) or Elementary (Grades 1-6) Education is pursued. Classes in each are focused on the specific educational needs of the age group, including special needs, creative arts, math, science, technology, and children s literature. Upon graduation, Endicott Education students have completed all of the requirements necessary to receive an initial license in the state of Massachusetts and are eligible to pursue licensure in many other states.

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1707883" title="Chuck Forsberg" nonfiltered="115" processed="115" dbindex="450115">
Chuck Forsberg's fame comes in part from developing the YMODEM and ZMODEM file transfer protocols. ZMODEM is a file transfer protocol with error checking and crash recovery.  ZMODEM does not wait for positive acknowledgment after each block is sent, but rather sends blocks in rapid succession. If a ZMODEM transfer is cancelled or interrupted for any reason, the transfer can be resurrected later and the previously transferred information need not be resent.

Chuck Forsberg designed YMODEM as a file transfer protocol for use between modems and developed it as the successor to XMODEM and MODEM7, It was formally given the name "YMODEM" (Yet another Modem implementation) in 1985 by Ward Christensen.

Other biographical information.
Chuck Forsberg graduated from Western Military Academy in 1962. Forsberg founded the company Omen Technology, which specializes in data transfer software, in 1984. He is an amateur radio operator (call sign WA7KGX),and a licensed aircraft pilot. He currently resides in Portland Oregon.

References.
Forsberg's corporate Web site




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1036686" title="Dagobert (4th century)" nonfiltered="116" processed="116" dbindex="450116">
Dagobert "Priamus", Duke of the East Franks, was born c.300 in Germany and died 379.  He was the son of Genebald, Duke of the East Franks.  Dagobert married in 323. His wife's name is unknown, but she is referred to as Mrs. Dagobert, Duchess of the East Franks.  He was the father of Clodio, Duke of the East Franks (Born c.324), although it is more often accepted that the half-legendary Pharamond was the father of Clodio.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1129955" title="Limp Wrist" nonfiltered="117" processed="117" dbindex="450117">

Limp Wrist is an all-gay straight edge punk rock band (Gayedge) featuring members of Los Crudos, Hail Mary, Devoid of Faith and Kill the Man Who Questions.

Referring to their style of hardcore punk music, the band declared in Frontiers newsmagazine, "We put the  core  back in Queercore". Their first recording was the self released demo Don't Knock It Till You Try It. This was followed by a single called "What s Up With The Kids" and then the self-titled LP Limp Wrist. However, since band members lived in different states maintaining the group became difficult. After an interlude they resumed touring in 2004 and released a new CD, Complete Discography the same year. The song "Ode" from this recording pays tribute to pioneering gay hardcore musicians Gary Floyd of The Dicks, Randy Turner of Big Boys and Joshua Plague of Mukilteo Fairies and Behead the Prophet, No Lord Shall Live, providing a historical context for Limp Wrist.

The band s best known song was "I Love Hardcore Boys, I Love Boys Hardcore", which received much attention from fans and press alike. Lead singer Martin Sorrondeguy appears in Queercore: A Punk-u-mentary by Scott Treleaven and addresses the issue implicit in these song titles.

In 2002, Maximum RockNRoll featured Martin Sorrondeguy in its "QueerPunk" issue, in discussion with Gary Fembot and Iraya Robles of Sta-Prest, and Aaron Detroit of The Little Deaths.

In 2004 Sorrondeguy released his own documentary film, Beyond The Screams: A U.S. Latino Hardcore Punk Documentary. He had begun the film while still a member of his former band Los Crudos.

In 2006, Limp Wrist released the split label 7", "Want Us Dead" on Cheap Art/Lengua Armada.

 Current Band Members .
 Martin Sorrondeguy;
 Scott Moore;
 Andrew Martini;
 Paul Henry;

Discography.
Albums.
Don't Knock It Till You Try It   Self released demo;
Limp Wrist   On Lengua Armada Discos in US, La Vida Es Un Mus in Europe LP/CD;
Limp Wrist - The Official Discography   Cheap-Art Records CD;

Singles.
"What's Up With The Kids", Paralogy Records;
"Split", 7" split singles with Knifed;
"Want Us Dead". 7" split release by Cheap-Art and Lengua Armada, May 2006;

Compilations.
Histeria   Lengua Armada compilation CD;
Mein Comp, Youth Attack, 7" compilation;
Barbaric Thrash Demolition II, 625 Records, 7" compilation;
Public Safety, Maximum RockNRoll, 2006;

See also.
List of hardcore punk bands;
List of queercore bands;

External links.
Limp Wrist in SF;
Limp Wrist on Myspace;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2912330" title="Paisean Faisean" nonfiltered="118" processed="118" dbindex="450118">
Paisean Faisean is an Irish language dating show broadcast on TG4, presented by Aoife N\ED Thuairisg. The format of the show involves three men choosing outfits for one woman, who must then base her choice on which outfit she likes the best. The suitors are shown a short pre-recorded clip of the girl, in which she introduces herself. Each man shops in a different shop, and has \A4400 spending money. The winning man and the girl then share dinner in a restaurant.

The show is currently in its second season, and has raised some controversy over its advertisements, two of which have had similar complaints upheld by the Advertising Standards Authority of Ireland - a billboard advertisement depicting a woman in slightly revealing clothing, led to complaints of 'reducing women to mere sexual objects', and a radio advertisement in which a woman complains about people being able to see her underwear, with the response of 'Not if you're not wearing any, they won't', led to complaints about sexual equality.

Notably, the show is promoted heavily through the English language, despite being in Irish.

External links.
Official site on TG4.ie in English;
Official site on TG4.ie in Irish;
ASAI complaint, radio ad;
ASAI complaint, television ad;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3509182" title="Radio Protector" nonfiltered="119" processed="119" dbindex="450119">


Radio Protector is the only single taken from 65daysofstatic's second album, 2005's One Time For All Time. It was released in February 2006 on 7" vinyl only, and limited to 1500 copies, containing both the track and new B-side "Asphalt & Trouble".

All copies are hand-stamped, hand-numbered and contain a lo-fi photocopied poster insert. As well as this, the first 1000 copies contain a unique polaroid photo taken by the band (all of these have titles, and these are found on the insert), and the remaining 500 copies contain a digital print of the 1001st polaroid. Although there are only 1500, the copies are numbered out of 3000.

A gallery of all the polaroids can be views on their website. The music video was produced by Media lounge.

The b-side Asphalt & Trouble uses an audio sample from the computer game Full Throttle.

 Tracklisting .
"Radio Protector";
"Asphalt & Trouble";


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5644068" title="Commission for the Preservation of Pioneer Jewish Cemeteries and Landmarks" nonfiltered="120" processed="120" dbindex="450120">
 
The Commission for the Preservation of Pioneer Jewish Cemeteries and Landmarks of the Judah L. Magnes Museum, in Berkeley, California holds title to six pioneer Jewish Cemeteries in California Gold Rush/Mother Lode country. The cemeteries at Jackson, Mokelumne Hill, Sonora, Grass Valley, Nevada City, and Placerville mark the beginning of Jewish settlement in Northern California. Following tradition, the Jewish pioneers founded burial societies as their first united action; the cemeteries are today's major link to the vanished Jewish communities of the Mother Lode.

Those interested in learning more of the history of the cemeteries, their inhabitants, and/or visiting the cemeteries are advised to examine San Morris's book, A Traveler's Guide to Pioneer Jewish Cemeteries of the California Gold Rush (Berkeley, California: Commission for the Preservation of Pioneer Jewish Cemeteries and Landmarks, Judah L. Magnes Museum, 1996 (ISBN 0-943376-63-7)). It is recommended that would-be visitors contact the Judah L. Magnes Museum before any visit, as many of the cemeteries are closed/locked and may not be visited without making previous arrangements to gain entrance.

The Western Jewish History Center, of the Judah L. Magnes Museum contains a large collection of records and documents relating to the Commission's work and includes correspondence; minutes of meetings; reports; newspaper clippings; and photographs of the cemeteries.
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2959683" title="Union Pacific 1982" nonfiltered="121" processed="121" dbindex="450121">

Union Pacific 1982 is an EMD SD70ACe locomotive owned by Union Pacific. It is one of UP's locomotives painted in the scheme of a predecessor railroad. UP 1982 is painted in Missouri Pacific colors.  The locomotive was unveiled together with number 1983 (painted in honor of Western Pacific Railroad) in a private ceremony on July 30 2005, in Omaha, Nebraska, after which it entered regular revenue service.

 References .
 ;

 External links .
 Photos of UP 1982;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1226300" title="John Moore-Brabazon, 1st Baron Brabazon of Tara" nonfiltered="122" processed="122" dbindex="450122">


John Theodore Cuthbert Moore-Brabazon, 1st Baron Brabazon of Tara, GBE, MC (8 February 1884   17 May 1964) was a London born English aviation pioneer and Conservative Party politician.

He learned to fly in 1908 in France in a Voisin biplane.  On October 30 1909, flying a Short Brothers aircraft, he flew a circular mile and won a 1,000 pound prize offered by the Daily Mail newspaper. On November 4 1909 he made the first live cargo flight by airplane when he put a small pig in a waste-paper basket tied to a wing-strut of his airplane.  With Charles Rolls he would later make the first ascent in a spherical balloon made in England by the Short brothers.

On March 8 1910 Moore-Brabazon became the first person to qualify as a pilot in the United Kingdom and was awarded Royal Aero Club certificate number 1, his car also bore the number-plate FLY 1.  During the First World War he served in the Royal Flying Corps, attaining the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel and was awarded the Military Cross.  He was instrumental in the development of military aerial photography.

Moore-Brabazon later became a Conservative Member of Parliament for Chatham (1918-1929) and Wallasey (1931-1942) and served as a junior minister in the 1920s, then Minister of Transport and Minister of Aircraft Production in Winston Churchill's wartime government.  

Moore-Brabazon was elevated to the House of Lords as Baron Brabazon of Tara in 1942. In 1943 he chaired the Brabazon Committee which planned to develop the post-war British aircraft industry.  He was involved in the production of the Bristol Brabazon, a giant airliner that first flew on September 4 1949. It was then and still is (as of 2004) the largest aeroplane built in Britain.

A keen golfer, Moore-Brabazon was captain of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, the governing body of golf, from 1952-1953. At the age of 70 he was still riding the Cresta Run.

Moore-Brabazon was President of the Middlesex County Automobile Club from 1946 until his death in 1964.

In 1906, he married Hilda Mary Krabb\E9, with whom he had two sons.  

External links.
 National Portrait Gallery;
 Photograph by Cecil Beaton, 1940;
 Portrait in Pastels by Alfred Egerton Cooper, 1958;

Offices held.





























ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3751758" title="Paul Strang" nonfiltered="123" processed="123" dbindex="450123">


Paul Andrew Strang (born Bulawayo, July 28 1970) was a leg-spinning all-rounder who played in 24 Tests and 95 ODIs for Zimbabwe  between 1994 and 2001. He played Test cricket alongside his brother, Bryan Strang; their father, Bryan Strang, was a first-class umpire and was TV umpire for two of Zimbabwe's Test matches in 1994/5.

He studied at the University of Cape Town, and toured Pakistan with the Zimbabwe side in 1993/4.  He played his first Test in 1994, and became a professional cricketer in 1995.  He was one of the leading wicket-takers in the 1996 Cricket World Cup in India, taking taking 12 wickets with a bowling average of 16, although the team was knocked out in the preliminary stage, beating Kenya (with Strang taking 5 wickets) but losing its other 4 matches. 

His scored his only Test century in the 1st innings of the 1st Test against Pakistan at Sheikhupura in 1996-7, batting at #8, including a stand of 87 with his brother for the 9th wicket.  He also took 5 wickets in Pakistan's 1st innings in the same match.  Strang's achievement was overshadowed by a double century, 257 not out, scored by Wasim Akram, and the match was drawn. 

He played two season of county cricket, as the overseas player for Kent in 1997 and for Nottinghamshire in 1998. 

He played in the 1999 Cricket World Cup in England in 2000, when Zimbabwe beat Kenya, India and South Africa to qualify for the "Super Six" stage.  He obtained his best Test bowling figures of 8-109 in the 1st innings against New Zealand at Bulawayo in 2000-1, although Zimbabwe lost the match by 7 wickets.  This remains the best bowling figures recorded by a Zimbabwean in an innings in Test cricket (the best match figures belong to Adam Huckle).   He only played in three further Tests, with his international career curtailed by a chronic injury to the muscles of his right hand in 2000. 

External links.
;
Biography;











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5928261" title="Brass (comics)" nonfiltered="124" processed="124" dbindex="450124">

Brass (Sean Watanabe) is a fictional mutant character in the Marvel Comics Universe. His first appearance was in Marvel Comics Presents #67.

Fictional character biography.
Brass is the son of Yuji Watanabe, the karate tutor of Ghost Rider's alter ego, Dan Ketch. An expert martial artist, Sean was trained by his father as soon as he could walk as a child. Sean then joined the Navy and trained as a commando operative in the Navy SEALs which is where he earned the nickname "Brass".

After leaving the Navy, Sean met a girl named Theresa and fell in love, but she was accidentally killed by a car attempting to escape an attack by the Mandarin on the Avengers. Sean learned that the Mandarin had been working with other villains as part of the "Acts of Vengeance", and swore revenge on all the villains that had taken part.

He began by hitting the Mandarin's operations in Chinatown, and ended up aiding Wolverine and Ghost Rider in rescuing his father's other pupil, Jack D'auria, from Deathwatch and his ninja forces.
Brass lost his mutant powers after the M-Day (powerloss confirmed in New Avengers #18).

Powers and abilities.
He was a low-level telepath who could read the thoughts somebody just thought.

Notes.
Watanabe isn't the only character to be called Brass.  These include:
Selbert, a member of  was know as Brass up until he was killed by Railsback.  He first appeared in Marvel Comics Presents #1 and was killed in #12.
In Iron Man vol. 1 #330, a large robot controlled by Morgan Stark was known as Brass.

Bibliography.
Marvel Comics Presents #65-71;
Avengers vol. 1 #313;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="309810" title="Kingdom of Thessalonica" nonfiltered="125" processed="125" dbindex="450125">
The Kingdom of Thessalonica was a short-lived Crusader State founded after the Fourth Crusade.

Boniface of Montferrat, the leader of the crusade, was expected by both the Crusaders and Byzantines to become the new emperor after the conquest of Constantinople in 1204. However, the Venetians felt Boniface was too closely tied to the Byzantine Empire, as his brother Conrad had married into the Byzantine royal family. The Venetians wanted an emperor whom they could control more easily, and elected Baldwin of Flanders emperor of the new Latin Empire.

Boniface reluctantly accepted this, and set out to conquer Thessalonica, the second-largest Byzantine city after Constantinople. At first he had to compete with Emperor Baldwin, who also wanted the city, but Boniface won this dispute by handing over his territory on Crete to the Venetians. He then went on to capture the city later in 1204 and set up a kingdom there, subordinate to Baldwin, although the title of "king" was never officially used. Late 13th and 14th century sources suggest that Boniface based his claim to Thessalonica on the statement that his younger brother Renier had been granted Thessalonica on his marriage to Maria Komnene in 1180. 

The kingdom occupied land along the Aegean coast of Thrace, Thessaly, and Macedonia, but the interior borders were undefined as the  kingdom was constantly at war with the Bulgarians, who wanted to capture the remnants of the Byzantine Empire for themselves, and the Despotate of Epirus, one of the Byzantine states-in-exile trying to reconquer Constantinople. The kingdom also faced attacks from the deposed Byzantine emperor Alexius III, who had fled to Corinth, although he was quickly defeated. After this victory Boniface captured the island of Euboea and helped some other Crusaders establish the Duchy of Athens and the Principality of Achaea, which became vassal states of Thessalonica. 

Boniface's rule lasted less than two years before he was ambushed by Kaloyan of Bulgaria and killed on September 4, 1207. The kingdom passed to Boniface's son Demetrius, who was still a baby, so actual power was held by various minor nobles. These nobles immediately rebelled against the Latin Empire, but they were crushed by Emperor Henry of Flanders in 1209. Henry's brother Eustache then became regent for Demetrius. Taking advantage of this situation, Michael I of Epirus, a former ally of Boniface, attacked the kingdom in 1210, as did the Bulgarians. Henry of Flanders eventually defeated both. Michael's brother Theodore continued the assault on the kingdom after Michael's death in 1215. Over the next nine years Theodore gradually conquered all of Thessalonica except the city itself, as the Latin Empire could spare no army to defend it while they were busy fighting the more powerful Byzantine Empire of Nicaea. In 1224, just as Demetrius had become old enough to take power for himself, Theodore finally captured Thessalonica and the kingdom became part of the Despotate of Epirus.

The kingdom was claimed by titular kings of the house of Montferrat until 1284 and also by the Dukes of Burgundy; Baldwin II of Constantinople had promised the title to Hugh IV should he regain the Latin Empire.

Kings of Thessalonica.
Boniface of Montferrat (1204 1207);
Demetrius of Montferrat (1207 1224);
? (regent, 1207 1209);
Eustache of Flanders (regent, 1209 1216);
? (regent, 1216 1224);

Titular Kings of Thessalonica.
Demetrius of Montferrat (1225 1230);
Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor (1230 1239);
Boniface II of Montferrat (1239 1253);
William VII of Montferrat (1253 1284);
Hugh IV of Burgundy (1266 1271) (rival claimant);
Robert II of Burgundy (1273 1305) (rival claimant until 1284);
Hugh V of Burgundy (1305 1313);
Louis of Burgundy (1313 1316);
Eudes IV, Duke of Burgundy (1316 1320?) (rights may have been sold; no longer claimed after 1320);

Notes.



Bibliography.

;
;

See also.
 Roman and Byzantine Greece;
 Montferrat;













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2653401" title="Herbert Croft" nonfiltered="126" processed="126" dbindex="450126">
Sir Herbert Croft, 5th Baronet (November 1 1751   April 26 1816), English author, was born at Dunster Park, Berkshire, son of Bishop Croft of Stifford, Essex.

He matriculated at University College, Oxford, in March 1771, and was subsequently entered at Lincoln's Inn. He was called to the bar, but in 1782 returned to Oxford with a view to preparing for holy orders. In 1786 he received the vicarage of Prittlewell, Essex, but he remained at Oxford for some years accumulating materials for a proposed English dictionary. He was twice married, and on the day after his second wedding day he was imprisoned at Exeter for debt.

He then retired to Hamburg, and two years later his library was sold. He had succeeded in 1797 to the baronetcy, but not to the estates, of a distant cousin, Sir John Croft, 4th Baronet. He returned to England in 1800, but went abroad once more in 1802. He lived near Amiens at a house owned by Lady Mary Hamilton, said to have been a daughter of the earl of Leven and Melville. Later he removed to Paris, where he died on the 26th of April 1816.

In some of his numerous literary enterprises he had the help of Charles Nodier. Croft wrote the Life of Edward Young inserted in Samuel Johnson's Lives of the Poets.

In 1780 he published Love and Madness, a Story too true, in a series of letters between Parties whose names could perhaps be mentioned were they less known or less lamented. This book, which passed through seven editions, narrates the passion of a clergyman named James Hackman for Martha Ray, mistress of the earl of Sandwich, who was shot by her lover as she was leaving Covent Garden in 1779 (see the Case and Memoirs of the late Rev. Mr James Hackman, 1779).

Love and Madness has permanent interest because Croft inserted, among other miscellaneous matter, information about Thomas Chatterton gained from letters which he obtained from the poet's sister, Mrs Newton, under false pretences, and used without payment. Robert Southey, when about to publish an edition of Chatterton's works for the benefit of his family, published (November 1799) details of Croft's proceedings in the Monthly To this attack Croft wrote a reply addressed to John Nichols in the Gentleman's Magazine, and afterwards printed separately as Chatterton and Love and Madness ... (1800).

This tract evades the main accusation, and contains much abuse of Southey. Croft, however, supplied the material for the exhaustive account of Chatterton in Andrew Kippis's Biographia Britannica (vol. iv., 1789).

In 1788 he addressed a letter to William Pitt on the subject of a new dictionary. He criticized Samuel Johnson's efforts, and in 1790 he claimed to have collected 11,000 words used by excellent authorities but omitted by Johnson. Two years later he issued proposals for a revised edition of Johnson's Dictionary, but subscribers were lacking and his 200 vols. of manuscript remained unused. Croft was a good scholar and linguist, and the author of some curious books in French.

The Love Letters of Mr H. and Miss R. 1775-1779 were edited from Croft's book by Mr Gilbert Burgess (1895). See also John Nichols's Illustrations ... (1828), v. 202-218.








----
;
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="428085" title="Electrospray ionization" nonfiltered="127" processed="127" dbindex="450127">


Electrospray ionization (ESI) is a technique used in mass spectrometry to produce ions. It is especially useful in producing ions from macromolecules because it overcomes the propensity of these molecules to fragment when ionized. The invention of electrospray ionization was rewarded with the attribution of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry to John Fenn in 2002.

How it works.

In electrospray ionization a liquid is pushed through a very small charged, usually metal, capillary.  This liquid contains the substance which is to be studied, the analyte, dissolved in a large amount of solvent, which is usually much more volatile than the analyte. Volatile acids, bases or buffers are often added to this solution as well. The analyte exists as an ion in solution either in a protonated form or as an anion.  As like charges repel, the liquid pushes itself out of the capillary and forms a mist or an aerosol of small droplets about 10m across. This jet of aerosol droplets is at least partially produced by a process involving the formation of a Taylor cone and a jet from the tip of this cone.  A neutral carrier gas, such as nitrogen gas, is sometimes used to help nebulize the liquid and to help evaporate the neutral solvent in the small droplets.  As the small droplets evaporate, suspended in the air, the charged analyte molecules are forced closer together.  The drops become unstable as the similarly charged molecules come closer together and the droplets once again break up. This is referred to as Coulombic fission because it is the repulsive Coulombic forces between charged analyte molecules that drive it. This process repeats itself until the analyte is free of solvent and is a lone ion. There remains debate as to the exact mechanisms of electrospray processes particularly in the later part of the process as the lone ion is formed. The lone ion then continues along to the mass analyzer of a mass spectrometer.

In electrospray processes the ions observed are quasimolecular ions that are ionized by the addition of a proton (hydrogen ion) to give  (M=analyte molecule, H=hydrogen ion), or other cation such as sodium ion , or the removal of a proton  for example. In electrospray multiply charged ions such as  are often observed. For large macromolecules there will often be a distribution of many charge states and the charge on the ions can be great such as . Note that these are all even-electron species. Electrons themselves (alone) have neither been added or removed as with some other ionizations. The formation of ions in electrospray is somewhat homologous to acid-base reactions. Redox reactions do occur and a circuit with measurable current flow exists but atomic and molecular ions are the primary carriers of charge in the solution and gas phases.

Issues of debate.

There are two major competing theories about the final production of lone ions, the charged residue model (CRM) and the ion evaporation model (IEM). 
Electrospray droplets start off highly charged, and as they shrink through evaporation the Coulomb repulsion forces approach the force of surface tension that holds droplet together. The droplet then becomes unstable and disintegrates into several droplets of smaller radius. The Charged Residue Model suggests that electrospray droplets undergo evaporation and disintegration cycles, with each initial droplet leading to a multitude of much smaller "daughter" droplets. Each final "daughter" droplet contains on average one or less molecule of analyte. When the last solvent molecules evaporate from such droplet the analyte molecule is left with the charges that the droplet carried.
The Ion Evaporation (Desorption) Model suggests that as droplet reaches certain radius the field strength at the surface of the droplet becomes great enough to push or desorb ions directly out of the droplet. Characteristically, the fission event corresponds to an almost negligible loss in droplet mass, but a significant drop in charge.
It has been suggested that both models probably occur for different analytes/solvents and in the limit of both models they have a tendency to converge. That is to say that the distinction between a droplet containing an analyte molecule and an analyte molecule surrounded by a layer of solvent eventually disappears and coulombic fission looks a lot like ion evaporation. The real question is scale and timing and the techniques to definitively determine this are not available.

The use of the word "ionization" in "electrospray ionization" is criticized by some because many of the ions observed are thought to be preformed in solution before the electrospray process or created by simple changes in concentrations as the aerosolized droplets shrink. It is argued that electrospray is simply an interface for transferring ions from the solution phase to the gas phase.

Variants.

There exist many variations on the basic electrospray technique. Two important ones are microspray (\B5-spray) and nanospray. The primary difference is in the reduced flow rate of the analyte containing liquid; however many other differences, such as the reduced internal diameter of the tubing or lack of nebulization gas, exist because of the difference in flow rate. These variants are important because they generally offer better sensitivity over traditional electrospray. The \B5 and nano designations refer to the flow rate of the analyte containing liquid; \B5Liters/minute and nanoLiters/minute respectively.

Applications.

Liquid chromatography mass spectrometry.
 see also the main article on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry;
Electrospray ionization is the primary ion source used in liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry because it's a liquid-gas interface that is capable of coupling liquid chomatography with mass spectrometry.

Noncovalent gas phase interactions.
Electrospray ionization is also ideal in studying noncovalent gas phase interactions. The electrospray process is capable of transferring liquid-phase noncovalent complexes into the gas phase without disrupting the noncovalent interaction. This means that a cluster of two molecules can be studied in the gas phase by other mass spectrometry techniques. An interesting example of this is studying the interactions between enzymes and drugs which are inhibitors of the enzyme. Because inhibitors generally work by noncovalently binding to its target enzyme with reasonable affinity the noncovalent complex can be studied in this way. Competition studies have been done in this way to screen for potential new drug candidates.

Colloid thrusters.
Electrospray techniques are employed in the control of satellites by allowing precise and effective thrusts. Here the method's property of fine-controllable particle ejection is put to use.

Deposition of particles for nanostructures.
In nanotechnology the electrospray method may be employed to deposit single particles on surfaces. This is accomplished by spraying colloids and making sure that on average there is not more than one particle per droplet. Consequent drying of the surrounding solvent results in an aerosol stream of single particles of the desired type. Here the ionizing property of the process is not crucial for the application but may be put to use in electrostatic precipitation of the particles.



External links.

 A thesis with significant background on electrospray ionization;
 New Objective: What is Electrospray?;

See also.
Taylor cone;

References.

 Zeleny, J., The Electrical Discharge from Liquid Points, and a Hydrostatic Method of Measuring the Electric Intensity at Their Surfaces. Phys Rev 1914, 3, 69.;

 Dole, M.; Mack, L. L.; Hines, R. L.; Mobley, R. C.; Ferguson, L. D.; Alice, M. B., Molecular Beams of Macroions. J Chem. Phys 1968, 49, 2240-2249.;

 Alexandrov, M. L.; Gall, L. N.; Krasnov, N. V.; Nikolaev, V. I.; Pavlenko, V. A.; Shkurov, V. A., Dokl. Akad. Nauk SSSR 1984, 277, 379-383. (in Russian);

 Fenn, J. B.; Mann, M.; Meng, C. K.; Wong, S. F.; Whitehouse, C. M., Electrospray ionization for mass spectrometry of large biomolecules. Science 1989, 246, 64-71.;

 Fenn, J. B.; Mann, M.; Meng, C. K.; Wong, S. F.; Whitehouse, C. M., Electrospray Ionization-Principles and Practice. Mass Spectrom Rev 1990, 9, 37-70.;

 Advanced information on the Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2002 (pdf);

A presentation on colloidal thrusters;

Schulz, F.; Franzka, S.; Schmid, G.; Nanostructured Surfaces by Deposition of Metal Nanoparticles by Means of Spray Techniques. Advanced Functional Materials 2002, 12,532-536.  ;

Grace,J. M.; Marijnissen, J. C. M.; A review of liquid atomization by electrical means. J Aerosol Sc, 1994, Volume 25, Issue 6,  Pages 1005-1019.;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="540901" title="Limehouse Declaration" nonfiltered="128" processed="128" dbindex="450128">
The Limehouse Declaration was a statement issued on January 25 1981 by four senior British Labour politicians, all MPs or former MPs: Roy Jenkins, David Owen, Bill Rodgers and Shirley Williams. In this document the so-called "Gang of Four"  signalled their intent to leave the Labour Party and form a "Council for Social Democracy". This Council became the basis for the British Social Democratic Party (SDP).

The statement became known as the "Limehouse Declaration" as it was made from David Owen's London home in Limehouse. A transcript of it is given below.

----
Statement issued by Shirley Williams, David Owen, Bill Rodgers and Roy Jenkins to the Press Association on 25 January 1981:
----


The calamitous outcome of the Labour Party Wembley conference demands a new start in British politics. A handful of trade union leaders can now dictate the choice of a future Prime Minister.

The conference disaster is the culmination of a long process by which the Labour Party has moved steadily away from its roots in the people of this country and its commitment to parliamentary government.

We propose to set up a Council for Social Democracy. Our intention is to rally all those who are committed to the values, principles and policies of social democracy.

We seek to reverse Britain's economic decline. We want to create an open, classless and more equal society, one which rejects ugly prejudices based upon sex, race or religion.

A first list of those who have agreed to support the Council will be announced at an early date. Some of them have been actively and continuously engaged in Labour politics. A few were so engaged in the past, but have ceased to be so recently. Others have been mainly active in spheres outside party politics.

We do not believe the fight for the ideals we share and for the recovery of our country should be limited only to politicians. It will need the support of men and women in all parts of our society.

The Council will represent a coming together of several streams: politicians who recognise that the drift towards extremism in the Labour Party is not compatible with the democratic traditions of the party they joined and those from outside politics who believe that the country cannot be saved without changing the sterile and rigid framework into which the British political system has increasingly fallen in the last two decades.

We do not believe in the politics of an inert centre merely representing the lowest common denominator between two extremes. We want more, not less, radical change in our society, but with a greater stability of direction.

Our economy needs a healthy public sector and a healthy private sector without frequent frontier changes.

We want to eliminate poverty and promote greater equality without stifling enterprise or imposing bureaucracy from the centre. We need the innovating strength of a competitive economy with a fair distribution of rewards.

We favour competitive public enterprise, co-operative ventures and profit-sharing.

There must be more decentralisation of decision-making in industry and government, together with an effective and practical system of democracy at work.

The quality of our public and community services must be improved and they must be made more responsive to people s needs. We do not accept that mass unemployment is inevitable. A number of countries, mainly those with social democratic governments, have managed to combine high employment with low inflation.

Britain needs to recover its self-confidence and be outward-looking, rather than isolationist, xenophobic or neutralist. We want Britain to play a full and constructive role within the framework of the European Community, NATO, the United Nations and the Commonwealth.

It is only within such a multi-lateral framework that we can hope to negotiate international agreements covering arms control and disarmament and to grapple effectively with the poverty of the Third World.

We recognise that for those people who have given much of their lives to the Labour Party, the choice that lies ahead will be deeply painful. But we believe that the need for a realignment of British politics must now be faced.


----

 See also .
 Social democracy;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5044783" title="Federal Commonwealth Society" nonfiltered="129" processed="129" dbindex="450129">
The Federal Commonwealth Society (FCS) is an organisation that promotes closer ties among Commonwealth nations, centred around the core group of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, British Overseas Territories, Cook Islands, Niue and their Dependencies, referred to collectively as CANZUK. Founded in London, UK in 2002, the FCS Head Office is now located in Toronto, Canada.


Ultimately, the FCS seeks the creation of a CANZUK federation, perhaps including other members of the Commonwealth. Its more immediate aim is the establishment of free trade, freedom of movement and reciprocal citizenship rights among the CANZUK countries, along the lines of the Closer Economic Relations and Trans-Tasman Travel Arrangement agreements between New Zealand and Australia.

Membership of the FCS is free and open to both Commonwealth and non-Commonwealth citizens anywhere in the world. Input from everyone is most welcome. Members can vote on and discuss variations of the proposal.

The key reason for the federation is to build global economic links amongst countries that share similar constitutional, institutional and cultural links and to free these countries from outside economic domination. Another main purpose for federation of the four CANZUK countries is for all of them to enjoy access to all of the markets of their current economic partnerships including NAFTA, the European Union, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. However, since those core nations included have been selected for their large cultural similarities and mostly identical institutions, the proposal to have Queen Elizabeth II as head of the federation is due to the fact that all proposed nations so far have Queen Elizabeth II as their head of state. The FCS plan also clearly indicates that a republican model for the federation is an acceptable alternative and that the constitution of the proposed federation is up to its people to decide. Even though the FCS currently advocates federation of only the core CANZUK countries for now due to economic reasons, the FCS has openly admitted that it is perfectly willing for other Commonwealth Nations, including republics, to be included in the federation with time so long as they meet the democratic, civil rights and economic stability of other Federation members. The FCS is not affiliated with any political party and does not support any extremist agendas. Members are located in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Argentina, South Africa, Sweden, Ireland, the United States and the Caribbean.

Structure.
The Federal Commonwealth Society is composed of general members and an FCS council, which currently consists of a president (Mr. James Alcock), two vice presidents (Mr. Micah Sicotte (UK & Canada), Mr. Ben Simpson (Australia & New Zealand), a secretary (Mr. Ashley Ryder) and president emeritus (Mr. Nick Thompson) with area representation for Scotland, Wales and London. The aim of the FCS council is purely administrative and there is little difference between the members of the FCS council and a general member in terms of relative power within the FCS. 

There are no membership fees and both commonwealth and non-commonwealth nationals may join. Projects are ongoing and include associations with political, social and independent organisations in the CANZUK member countries and related spheres. Further details are given on the  FCS webpage.

See also.
Imperial Federation;

 External links .
Federal Commonwealth Society;
La Soci\E9t\E9 du Commonwealth f\E9d\E9ral - in French;
Commonwealth Advantage - Commonwealth Free Trade advocates;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="9345376" title="Vatsyayana cipher" nonfiltered="130" processed="130" dbindex="450130">
The Vatsyayana cipher or Kama Sutra cipher is a classical substitution cipher described in the famous Indian erotics manual authored by Mallanaga Vatsyayana who is believed to have lived in the fourth century AD.

External link.
Kamasutra cipher;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1610384" title="Jeev Milkha Singh" nonfiltered="131" processed="131" dbindex="450131">

Jeev Milkha Singh (born 15 December 1971) was the first Indian golfer to become a member of the European Tour. Jeev is the highest ranked Indian golfer in the world, breaking into the top 100 in October 2006. He is the son of the famous Indian Sikh athlete Milkha Singh. Singh lives in the city of Chandigarh.

Singh attended Abilene Christian University in the United States of America and won the NCAA Division II individual golf championship in 1993. He also won a number of amateur tournaments in the U.S. His first professional win came at the 1993 Southern Oklahoma State Open, a minor local event, but he played mainly in Asia, where he was a regular winner in the mid 1990s. In 1997 he finished seventh at the European Tour qualifying school, and he joined the tour the following year. 

His best season in Europe up until 2006 was in 1999, when he came 50th on the Order of Merit. He struggled with injury in the early years of the new century but in April 2006 he won the Volvo China Open, becoming the second Indian to win on the European Tour after Arjun Atwal. He also won the season ending Volvo Masters, which elevated him to a final position of 16th on the Order of Merit. He finished 2006 as the winner of the Asian Tour Order of Merit and capped his season with a pair of back to back wins in Japan to become the first Indian to make the top 50 of the Official World Golf Rankings. 

Professional wins.
1993 Southern Oklahoma State Open;
1994 Shinhan Donghae Open (South Korea - not an Asian Tour event) ;
1995 Philippine Classic, Asian Matchplay Championship (both Asian Tour);
1996 Philip Morris Asia Cup (Asian Tour);
1999 Lexus International (Asian Tour) ;
2006 Volvo China Open (co-sanctioned by the Asian and European Tours), Volvo Masters (European Tour), Casio World Open (Japan Golf Tour), Golf Nippon Series JT Cup (Japan Golf Tour);

References.

milka singh is the recipient of india's second highest civil honour the padma vibhushan in 2007.

External links.
Profile on the Asian Tour's official site;
Profile on the European Tour's official site;
Profile at golf.sports-india.com;
Results in ranking events for the last two years from the Official World Golf Ranking site;













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4869949" title="SysProtect" nonfiltered="132" processed="132" dbindex="450132">
Sysprotect is program and service that claims to be able to protect subscribers from the Vundo trojan (which is closely related to the WinFixer virus), when it really is a vector, that is, a means for the spread of infection of this trojan.

Typical dialogs.
The following are some typical dialogs that will appear when the program is attempting to infect the victim's computer. On localised versions of Windows, the dialog may appear in the language of the Windows installation.




The above message reads:

"NOTICE: If your computer has errors in the registry database or filesystem, it could cause unpredictable or erratic behavior, freezes and crashes. Fixing these errors can increase your computer's performance and prevent data loss.

Would you like to install SysProtect for free? (Recommended)"






The above message reads:

"NOTICE: You have not completed the scan.  If your computer has errors in the registry database or filesystem, it could cause unpredictable or erratic behavior, freezes, crashes.

SysProtect can perform a quick and completely FREE scan of your system for errors.

Would you like to download SysProtect to scan for and, if found, correct any registry problems now (recommended)?






The above message reads:

"SysProtect will scan your system for errors now.

Please select "RUN" or "OPEN" when prompted to start the installation.

This file has been digitally signed and independently certified as 100% free of viruses, adware, and spyware.



See also.
Vundo trojan;
WinFixer;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2298259" title="Fr\F8ya Ambassadors" nonfiltered="133" processed="133" dbindex="450133">
 
Fr\F8ya Ambassadors is a Norwegian basketball team playing in BLNO. Fr\F8ya Ambassadors is located in Laksev\E5g.

Current roster.
(as of July 24, 2005)
 Roy Midtun;
 Finn Erik Berge;
 Johan Inge Fauske;
 Jan Terje Ree;
 David Hammer;
 Nima Taheri;
 Drazen Kazaic;
 Frode Loftesnes;
 Greg Knudson;
 Marco Elsafadi;
 Peter Heimstad;
 Jan Martin Berge;

Head Coach.
 Terje Osland;

External links.
Offical Homepage;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="572800" title="Kasa District, Kyoto" nonfiltered="134" processed="134" dbindex="450134">
Kasa (   ; -gun) was a district located in Kyoto, Japan.

As of 2003, the district had an estimated population of 5,571 and a density of 57.55 persons per km\B2. The total area was 96.81 km\B2.

 Towns and villages .
Oe;

Merger.
On January 1, 2006 the town of Oe from Kasa District merged into the city of Fukuchiyama. Kasa District was dissolved as a result of this merger.








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="9124559" title="New daily persistent headache" nonfiltered="135" processed="135" dbindex="450135">

  SEX HEADACHE

Introduction

Sexual activity   especially orgasm   can trigger a headache. You may notice a dull ache in your head and neck that builds up as sexual excitement increases and peaks during orgasm. Or you may experience a sudden, severe headache during orgasm.

Most sex headaches are nothing to worry about. But proper diagnosis is important. Sometimes sex headaches are a sign of something serious, such as bleeding in the brain or stroke.

Signs and symptoms

Sex headaches often start as a dull ache on both sides of the head. The pain may intensify as sexual excitement increases.

In other cases, sex headaches appear suddenly during orgasm. You may feel severe pain around or behind your eyes. Some peopledescribe the pain as pulsing, throbbing or a sudden blow to the head. The pain may get worse when you move.

Most sex headaches last a few minutes. Others may linger for a few hours

Causes

Any type of sexual activity that leads to orgasm   including masturbation, oral sex and intercourse   can trigger sex headaches.

Dull, achy sex headaches are thought to be caused by tightening the head and neck muscles during sexual activity. Sex headaches associated with orgasm may be a response to increased blood pressure that causes the cerebral blood vessels to dilate.

In other cases, medications such as birth control pills and pseudoephedrine (a common decongestant in many over-the-counter cold remedies) have been linked to sex headaches.

Sex headaches aren't usually related to the amount of physical exertion associated with sexual activity.

Risk factors

Sex headaches can affect anyone. But they're more common in men and people who are prone to migraines. Sex headaches may be more likely if you're tired, stressed or have sex multiple times in rapid succession.

When to seek medical advice

Sex headaches aren't usually a cause for concern. But it's a good idea to consult your doctor if you experience headaches during sexual activity   especially if it's your first headache of this type. Sex headaches may indicate a serious underlying problem, such as bleeding in the brain or stroke.


Screening and diagnosis

Your doctor may recommend a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) exam to detect any underlying causes for your headache. During the exam, a magnetic field and radio waves are used to create cross-sectional images of the structures within your brain.

In other cases, a computed tomography (CT) scan of your brain may be done. Computerized tomography uses an X-ray unit that rotates around your body and a computer to create cross-sectional images (like slices) of your brain and head.

Sometimes a spinal tap (lumbar puncture) is needed as well   especially if the headache appeared suddenly. With this procedure, the doctor removes a small amount of the fluid that surrounds your brain and spinal cord. The fluid sample can be tested for protein, white blood cells and other substances.

Complications

Sex headaches aren't associated with any physical complications. But fear of recurrent headaches may turn into a fear of having sex, which can affect intimate relationships and how you feel about sex.

Treatment

Sex headaches often disappear on their own. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin or ibuprofen may help ease the pain of a lingering headache.

If you have a history of sex headaches, your doctor may recommend preventive therapy before sex. Sometimes aspirin or ibuprofen is enough. In other cases, medications such as propranolol (Inderal, others) or indomethacin (Indocin, others) may be an option.

Prevention

Sometimes sex headaches can be prevented by stopping sexual activity before orgasm. Slowing down the pace and relaxing neck and jaw muscles during sexual activity may help, too.
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="874546" title="Kagamiishi, Fukushima" nonfiltered="136" processed="136" dbindex="450136">
Kagamiishi (   ; -machi) is a town located in Iwase District, Fukushima, Japan.

As of 2003, the town has an estimated population of 12,718 and a density of 406.98 persons per km\B2. The total area is 31.25 km\B2.

External links.
Kagamiishi official website in Japanese;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1739176" title="Collaroy, New South Wales" nonfiltered="137" processed="137" dbindex="450137">


Collaroy is a suburb in the local council area of Warringah, on the northern beaches of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is approximately 20 kilometres north-north-east of Sydney's central business district. Collaroy's shopping precinct is centred along Pittwater Road, which runs north-south through the suburb. Collaroy has an excellent beach and is popular with backpackers. It has grown vigorously since the mid twentieth century. To the north is the suburb of Narrabeen, to the east is the Tasman Sea, to the south is Dee Why, and to the west is Collaroy Plateau.

Collaroy features a mix of modern detached houses and medium density apartment blocks.
Collaroy was named for the collier Collaroy which sank off the coast in 1881 during a storm. 

Transport.
Collaroy's public transport consists of buses operated by Sydney Buses. Routes 182 through 190 run south to the CBD (express services take about 35 minutes) and north to suburbs from Narrabeen to Palm Beach. Route 155 runs south to Manly (from where ferries and JetCats connect with the CBD). There are no train services in the area.

Politics.
For federal elections, Collaroy is in the seat of Mackellar. The seat is held by Bronwyn Bishop of the Liberal Party. The seat has been held continuously by the Liberals since it was created in 1949.

For NSW state elections, Collaroy is in the seat of Wakehurst.  The seat is held by Brad Hazzard of the Liberal Party. See .

Local political issues include:

 Erosion of Collaroy beach, due to removal of the sand dunes to create space for beachfront housing.
 Overdevelopment - the replacement of detached houses by apartment blocks, with subsequent increased pressure on local services, roads, and transport.

External links.

 About Narrabeen and Collaroy Beaches. ;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7125498" title="Antakalnis Cemetery" nonfiltered="138" processed="138" dbindex="450138">

Antakalnis Cemetery (, ), sometimes referred as Antakalnis Military Cemetery, is the cemetery in Antakalnis district of Vilnius in Lithuania. It has been established in 1809. 

The victims of Soviet Army forces' attacks during the January Events of 1991 and the Medininkai Massacre are buried here. Other graves include those of Polish soldiers perished in 1919-1920, a memorial of Lithuanian as well as German and Russian soldiers fallen in World War I and Red Army soldiers of World War II (constructed in 1951, rebuilt 1976-1984).

The famous people buried in the Antakalnis Cemetery include:
 Marian Zdziechowski (1861-1938) - historian;
 Teodor Bujnicki (1907-1944) - poet (killed by the AK);
 Ieva Simonaityt  (1897-1978) - writer;
 Antanas Venclova (1906-1979) - writer;

Saul s Cemetery.

The Saul s Cemetery is another cemetery in Antakalnis sometimes referred to as Antakalnis Cemetery. It is the old parish cemetery of St. Peter and St. Paul Church, established in 1830 and is the place of rest of many noble Lithuanians.

Famous people buried here include members of Oginski and Zawisza families, Danielius Alseika, Jonas Kazlauskas, Teodoras Valaitis and J\F3zef Zawadzki (1781-1838), the editor of the first poems of Adam Mickiewicz.

Image gallery.

External links.
 Visitor's guide to Antalkalnis Cemetery;
----











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2101553" title="Saline water" nonfiltered="139" processed="139" dbindex="450139">


Saline water is water that contains a significant concentration of dissolved salts. The concentration is usually expressed in parts per million (ppm) of salt. Sea water has a salinity of roughly 35,000 ppm, equivalent to 35 g/L. The USGS uses the following terms to classify water of different salinities:



Another classification for water salinity appears as follows:


With the scarcity of fresh water in some areas of the world, the world is taking more notice of uses for slightly saline water and methods to desalinate it. For example, in Colorado, water having up to 2,500 ppm of salt is used for irrigating crops. Normally, moderately or highly salinated is of little use to humans. Humans cannot drink salinated water, nor is it suitable for irrigating crops. Industry also rarely uses salinated water because of the effect salt water has on metal components, among other reasons.

 Saline water use .

In today's world people are more aware of the need to conserve freshwater. With the ever-growing demand for water by growing populations worldwide, many people have taken it upon themselves to try to find more uses for the abundant saline water supplies that exist, mainly in the oceans. By looking at the United States water-use one can see the amounts used. About 15 percent of all water used in the United States in 2000 was saline. Almost all saline withdrawals, over 96 percent, were used by the thermoelectric-power industry to cool electricity-generating equipment. About two percent of the nation's saline water was used for mining and industrial purposes.

 Saline water use by State, United States, 2000 .

Due to their proximity to the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, states on the eastern and western coasts of the United States and those States which border on the Gulf of Mexico make the most use of saline water. Almost 50% of all saline water used occurred in California, Florida, and Maryland.

 Trends in saline-water use, 1950-2000 .

The use of saline water, and freshwater also, has been trending downward since peaking in 1980. But, in the period between 1950 and 1980, the use of saline water increased at a much higher rate than freshwater use.

References.

 U.S. Geological Survey (Water Science for Schools) ();



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6168752" title="List of villages in Hordaland" nonfiltered="140" processed="140" dbindex="450140">
This is a list of villages in Hordaland, a county of Norway. For other counties see the lists of villages in Norway.

The list excludes cities located in Hordaland.



References.
;

;

;

;

;

;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3936521" title="Neapoli, Thessaloniki" nonfiltered="141" processed="141" dbindex="450141">
Neapoli (Greek:        ) is a suburban city in the Thessaloniki Prefecture. The municipal population is 30,279 (2001 census).
It is located at the North-West sector of the urban Thessaloniki and the neighbouring municipalities are Poilchni, Sykies, Thessaloniki and Ampelokipi. There are 8 districts: Neapoli, Piropathon, Kato Anagennisi, Pano Anagennisi, Kunturioti, Troada, Riga Fereou, Ydragogio.

The municipality has a summer theater, a theatrical school, a summer movie-theatre, amusic school and a dance school.

Also there are a soccer field, a gymnasium and a swimming pool that can guest water-polo games.








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3530857" title="Miss Alabama USA" nonfiltered="142" processed="142" dbindex="450142">

The  Miss Alabama USA competition is the pageant that selects the representative for the state of Alabama in the Miss USA pageant.

Alabama is one of the more successful and (recently) consistent states at Miss USA.  Although they have had a number of runners-up, finalists and semi-finalists, they have only had one Miss USA.  Even more successfully, Sylvia Hitchcock, Miss USA 1967, went on to win the Miss Universe title.  Two Miss Alabama USA titleholders have placed first runner-up to winners from California: Candace Michelle Brown was first runner-up to Shannon Marketic in 1999, and Pamela Flowers was first runner-up to Summer Bartholomew in 1975.

Three Miss Alabama USA titleholders were former Miss Alabama Teen USAs.  Of these three, two placed better in the Miss competition than they did as teens.

Results summary.
Winners: Sylvia Hitchcock (1967 - Miss Universe);
1st runners-up: Pamela Flowers (1975), Candace Michelle Brown (1992), Michelle Arnette (2003);
2nd runners-up: Doris Edwards (1953), Judith Carlson (1958), Margaret Gordon (1960), Jina Mitchell (2000);
3rd runners-up: Pamela Rigas (1980);
4th runners-up: Suellen Robinson (1961);
Top 10: Autumn Smith (1997), Tara Darby (2004), Haleigh Stidham (2006);
'Top 11/12: JoAnne Henderson (1981), Candy Carley (1991), Tara Tucker (2002);
Top 15: Pat Sullivan (1959), Dinah Irene Armstrong (1963), Pamela Jean Borgfeldt (1964), Leigh Sanford  (1965), Claudia Robinson (1968), Hitsy Parnell (1969);

Winners.

1 Age at the time of the Miss USA pageant;
2 No titleholder was elected 1954-1957;

External links.
Official website;
State Pageant Results 2000-2006;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2296329" title="Marcos Mundstock" nonfiltered="143" processed="143" dbindex="450143">


Marcos Mundstock was born May 25, 1942, in Santa Fe, Argentina. He is a founding member of Les Luthiers.










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1789241" title="Mr Standfast" nonfiltered="144" processed="144" dbindex="450144">


Mr. Standfast is the third of five Richard Hannay novels by John Buchan, first published in 1919 by Hodder & Stoughton, London. 

It is one of two Hannay novels set during the First World War, the other being Greenmantle (1916); Hannay's first and best-known adventure, The Thirty-Nine Steps (1915), is set in the period immediately before the war started. 

The title is taken from John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, to which there are many other references in the book; Hannay uses a copy of Pilgrim's Progress to decipher coded messages from his contacts, and letters from his friend Peter Pienaar.

Plot introduction.
Set in the later years of World War I, Brigadier-General Hannay is recalled from active service on the Western Front to undertake a secret mission hunting for a dangerous German agent at large in Britain. He is forced to work undercover disguised as a pacifist, roaming the country incognito to investigate the deadly spy and his agents, and then heads to the Swiss Alps to save Europe from being overwhelmed by the German army. 

Plot summary.

 Part One .

Dick Hannay, under forty and already a successful Brigadier-General with good prospects of advancement, is called out of uniform by his old comrade, spymaster Sir Walter Bullivant, and sent to Fosse Manor in the Cotswolds to receive further instructions. He must pose as a South African, an objector to the war, and once more takes on the name Cornelius Brandt (which he had used on his adventures in Germany in Greenmantle). He is upset by the idea of such a pose, but comforted by thoughts of his friend Peter Pienaar, briefly a successful airman and now a prisoner in Germany, and by the beauty of the Cotswold countryside.

At Fosse, he meets two middle-aged spinsters, their cousin Launcelot Wake, a conscientious objector, and their niece Mary Lamington, a girl whose prettiness had struck Hannay earlier, while visiting a shell-shocked friend in the hospital where she works. It emerges that she is his contact, but she can tell him little more than that he must immerse himself in the world of pacifists and objectors, picking up "atmosphere". She gives him a label to paste inside his watch, an address where he will be staying, and advises him to pick up a copy of Pilgrim's Progress.

Hannay heads to Biggleswick, a small town full of artists and writers. He buries himself in their pacifist community, attending meetings at a local hall, and meets Moxon Ivery, a local bigwig who seems vaguely familiar; he also sees Mary about the place. He hears of his old comrade John Blenkiron, and one day the American appears at one of the town's meetings; he passes a message to Hannay, arranging to meet in London.

Blenkiron reveals that he has been hard at work for some time, around the world and undercover around England, on the track of a huge network of German spies and agents, with their head somewhere in Britain, leaking vital information to the enemy. He believes Ivery to be the spider at the centre of the web, but cannot prove it, and wants to use Ivery to feed misinformation to the Germans. He tells Hannay to try and head for Scotland and an American called Gresson, as he believes the information is being sent that way.

Hannay goes to Glasgow, and contacts a trade union man named Amos, through whom he moves into Gresson's circles. He speaks at a meeting which descends into violence, and finds himself in at Gresson's side in a street fight. He saves the day, but makes an enemy of a big Fusilier named Geordie Hamilton. He later learns that Gresson makes regular boat trips up the coast, and plans to tag along.

He rides the foul boat, but realises he needs a passport to go all the way north, and must follow it on shore, dodging the law. He has a hint from his contact that a mine at a place called Ranna may be what he seeks, and hears the boat stops at an iron mine, so he resolves to head that way. He leaves the boat and treks inland, but soon finds he is wanted by the law, and is caught by some soldiers. He claims to be a soldier too, and their Colonel takes him home with him, to meet his check his story; the son confirms all Hannay's army knowledge, and suspicions are allayed.

He moves on, staying overnight with peasants, making his way onto Skye and towards Ranna. Arriving there, he meets Amos, who goes to fetch supplies, and sees the boat and Gresson, who meets a stranger on the hill. Hannay tracks the foreign-looking stranger to a rocky bay, where the man disappears for a time before heading back. Hannay stays there overnight, and next morning fetches his provisions and searches the beach, finding the deep water of the bay ideal for submarines. He finds a hidden cave, and while preparing to lay in wait there sees Launcelot Wake climbing in. They fight and Hannay ties the other man up, but they soon realise they are on the same side.

They stake out the cave, and in the night the man Hannay followed returns, meeting with a German from the sea; they exchange pass-phrases, and Hannay sees the hiding place they plan to use to pass messages. Wake identifies some of their talk as extracts from Goethe, and is sent back with messages for Amos and Bullivant, while Hannay ponders the phrases he overheard - Bommaerts, Chelius, Wild Bird and Caged Bird. He heads for home, but Amos warns him the police are still after him, and gives him a new disguise, as a travelling bookseller.

On the way south he takes up with another salesman, a man named Linklater who Amos had seen with Gresson. In a small town, Hannay is recognised by Geordie Hamilton, the big soldier he fought with in Glasgow, and flees once more with half the town, including Linklater, on his tail. He hides out in a troop train heading south; he gets off when it stops, is seen by Linklater, but at the station hooks up with his old pal Archie Roylance, a pilot who flies him on southwards. The plane breaks down, and Hannay, still pursued, flees afoot once more, upsetting a film set, stealing a bicycle and making his way into another town. On the verge of capture, his watch is stolen, and he is dragged of the streets by a man who recognises the badge he carries there; he is given a soldier's outfit and sent on his way.

He arrives in London in the midst of an air raid; in a tube station he sees Ivery, the spymaster's guard down in fear, and Hannay finally recognises him as one of the "Black Stone" men he had tangled with in The Thirty-Nine Steps. Hurrying to tell his colleagues, he is arrested as a deserter and delayed. He eventually gets word through to Macgillivray at Scotland Yard, but his enemy has two hours start and evades capture.

Hannay is encouraged by a letter from Peter Pienaar, and at a meeting with Bullivant, Blenkiron and Mary, he pushes for them to hound the man down. They discuss the clues Hannay overheard on the beach, and Ivery's fear of the bombing, and Mary reveals that Ivery has proposed to her.

 Part Two .

Hannay returns to the war in Europe for several months. He finds Geordie Hamilton, and employs him as his batman; he runs into Launcelot Wake, working as a support labourer behind the lines; he sees several adverts in English and German newspapers, which he suspects may be some kind of coded communication.  Hamilton reports having seen Gresson in a party of touring visitors, and Hannay learns he had stayed behind in a small village for a time; he later hears a story of mysterious goings-on at a chateau near the same village. 

Flying with Archie Roylance on a reconnoitre, they get lost in fog and land near the chateau in question, where Hannay sees a mysterious old woman in a gas mask. Finding the castle is in a vital strategic spot, he returns to investigate, and learns the place is leased by a man named Bommaerts, one of the words he had overheard on the beach in Skye. Sneaking into the house at night, he finds Mary there too, and learns she has seen Ivery, now calling himself Bommaerts, who is in love with her. They find anthrax powder and a newpaper with one of the adverts deciphered, and then Ivery arrives. Confronted by Hannay, he flees, and Hannay shoots after him; the chateau burns down. 

A few days later, in January 1918, Hannay is withdrawn from the front for more special duties. Blenkiron gives dinner for Hannay and Mary, now engaged, where he learns that the newspaper advert scam has been broken up and its operatives, led by Gresson, arrested. Blenkiron has found a second code in the messages, used by Ivery and his masters, and has identified Ivery as the Graf von Schwabing, a former high-flyer unseated by scandal. He hears of the Wild Birds, a ruthless and deadly band of German spies, of whom Ivery is a leading member, and learns that they plan to head to Switzerland to pin Ivery down, using Mary as bait.

Hannay makes his way south to Switzerland, where he poses as an injured Swiss, servant to the crippled Peter Pienaar, who has been released there. The two catch up, swap stories, and await instructions, keeping an eye on the nearby Pink Chalet, believed to be the base of the Wild Birds. Finally receiving Blenkiron's instructions, Hannay goes one night to the chalet, where he meets his contact, but is betrayed and taken prisoner by von Schwabing. The German tells Hannay he plans to capture Mary too, and send them both back to Germany to deal with at his pleasure, while the German army attacks and crushes their enemies.

Von Schwabing leaves him pinned in an ancient rack, but he breaks free. He runs into the man he followed across Skye, and, using the pass-phrases he overheard there, poses as a conspirator. He is provided with a car and chases after von Schwabing, sending Peter to alert the others. After a long drive through the mountains, he crashes the car and runs the rest of the way, but arrives to find Mary already gone and Launcelot Wake waiting for him. Learning that von Schwabing is returning to the chalet the long way, they resolve to head over the mountains on foot, cutting out much of the road.

Wake, an experienced mountaineer, leads a tough climb through snow and ice, exhausting himself in the process. Hannay drags him to the safety of a cottage, then continues by train and again on foot. He arrives at the house, and staggers in, to see von Schwabing gloating over Blenkiron, who appears to have walked into the same trap Hannay had the night before. However, Blenkiron was warned by Hannay's message, and has the house in his command; Geordie Hamilton and Amos emerge and take von Schwabing prisoner.

At Hannay's suggestion, von Schwabing is sent to the front to see battle, while the others head to Paris, just as the Germans begin a mighty attack. As they near the front, they hear the defenses are crumbling beneath the onslaught, with Hannay's men at the heart of things. He resumes his command, and holds a thin line against the German advance, with Wake running messages for him, Blenkiron engineering the reserve trenches and Mary nursing in a nearby hospital. Amos and Hamilton guard von Schwabing, whose mind has gone strange. 

A long and hard battle ensues, in the course of which Wake dies heroically, von Schwabing runs into No Man's Land and is shot by his countrymen, and Blenkiron joins the fray with a party of Americans. At the last, with reinforcements due any moment, a party of German planes overflies Hannay's position, and are sure to bear news of the weak point if allowed to return; British planes fly against them, but one, flown by flying ace Lensch, evades them. Peter Pienaar, flying Archie Roylance's plane despite his bad leg, flies into him, bringing him down and killing himself in the process, and the day is saved.

Characters in "Mr Standfast".
 Brigadier-General Richard Hannay, tough soldier and occasional spy;
 John Blenkiron, Hannay's friend, an American operative;
 Peter Pienaar, an old friend of Hannay, become an ace pilot;
 Geordie Hamilton, a Scottish soldier Hannay meets and takes on as his batman;
 Sir Walter Bullivant, spymaster, old acquaintance of Hannay;
 Andrew Amos, Blenkiron's man in Scotland;
 Mary Lamington, the girl Hannay meets and falls for;
 Launcelot Wake, a conscientious objector, cousin of Mary;
 Moxon Ivery, an important pacifist thinker;



 See also .
The subsequent Richard Hannay novels of John Buchan are:

The Three Hostages (1924);
The Island of Sheep (1936);

He also appears as a secondary character in The Courts of the Morning (1929).

 External links .
;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7991846" title="Jean-Luc Th\E9rier" nonfiltered="145" processed="145" dbindex="450145">
Jean-Luc Th\E9rier (born Hodeng-au-Bosc , October 7, 1945) is a French former rally driver. He was the highest scoring driver in the inaugural World Rally Championship in 1973 and the only one to win three events. However, until 1977 the championship was only formally contested by manufacturers, not individuals, so only Th\E9rier's Alpine-Renault team were formally awarded the title.

He most frequently competed in an Alpine Renault A110, winning the Rallye Sanremo and the Acropolis Rally in 1970. He won the same two events again in 1973, along with the Rallye Sanremo, during his annus memorabilis.

He also won the 1974 Press-on-Regardless Rally in the United States driving a Renault 17 Gordini, and the 1980 Tour de Corse behind the wheel of a Porsche 911 SC.

External link.
Profile of Th\E9rier, Rallybase.nl;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1278208" title="Darren Howard" nonfiltered="146" processed="146" dbindex="450146">


Darren Howard (born November 19, 1976 in St. Petersburg, Florida) is an American football player who currently plays Defensive End for the Philadelphia Eagles of the NFL.  He went to Boca Ciega High School in his hometown and graduated from Kansas State University.  He was selected in the second round, with the 33rd pick, from the New Orleans Saints.  From 2000-2005, he played Defensive End for the Saints.  On Monday, March 13, 2006, he joined the Philadelphia Eagles through free agency, by signing a six-year deal He is one of the few defensive lineman in the NFL with the ability to play defensive end and defensive tackle. 

His career stats are 259 tackles, 44.5 sacks, 13 forced fumbles, 8 fumbles recovered, 19 passes defended and 2 interceptions in 81 games. 

 External links .
 Current Stats;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7777788" title="Kilmarnock and Troon Railway" nonfiltered="147" processed="147" dbindex="450147">

The Kilmarnock and Troon Railway was the first railway line in Scotland and ran services between Kilmarnock and Troon.

History.
The line began life as a waggonway which opened on 6 July 1812.  On 16 July 1846 the line was leased to the Glasgow, Paisley, Kilmarnock and Ayr Railway, who began services after regauging the tracks for locomotives. The line was bought by its successor, the Glasgow and South Western Railway in 1899 who ran services until the line's closure on 3 May 1969.

 Connections to other lines .

 Glasgow, Paisley, Kilmarnock and Ayr Railway at Barassie and Kilmarnock;
 Glasgow, Barrhead and Kilmarnock Joint Railway at Kilmarnock;

 Current Operations .
On 5 May 1975 the line was reopened and today is part of the Glasgow South Western Line providing services to Stranraer via Kilmarnock. The intermediate stations between Barassie and Kilmarnock remain closed, and the line remains unelectrified. As part of the resignalling prior to the electrification of the Ayrshire Coast Line, the Kilmarnock line through Barassie station was singled and the platforms taken out of use.

References.

Butt, R. V. J. (1995). The Directory of Railway Stations. Patrick Stephens Ltd, Sparkford. ;
Stansfield, G. (1999). Ayrshire & Renfrewshire's Lost Railways, Stenlake Publishing, Catrine.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5438614" title="Royal Perth Golfing Society" nonfiltered="148" processed="148" dbindex="450148">
 
The Royal Perth Golfing Society and County and City Club is a golfing and gentleman's club in Perth, Scotland, with premises overlooking the North Inch. 

 History .
The Perth Golfing Society was formed in 1824. 

In 1833 King William IV granted the Society his Royal Patronage. This was the very first grant of royal patronage to a Golfing Society, one year before the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews. There are now over 60 clubs throughout the world entitled to use the name `Royal'.

H.R.H. The Duke of York is the Club's current Patron.

The long and proud history of the Club has been well documented in the Reverend T.D. Miller's History of 1935, and John S.G Blair's History of 1997.

 External links .
official website;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2444148" title="Norelgestromin" nonfiltered="149" processed="149" dbindex="450149">

Norelgestromin is a molecule used in hormonal contraceptives.

See also.
 Progestin;
 Contraceptive patch;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8748726" title="List of bolete species" nonfiltered="150" processed="150" dbindex="450150">


Boletus aereus - Ontto Beltza, Porcino nero, Queen bolete, Bronzy bolete ;
Boletus albidus;
Boletus appendiculatus - Spindle-stemmed bolete;
Boletus badius - Bay bolete;
Boletus barrowsii - White king bolete;
Boletus calopus;
Boletus chrysenteron - Red-cracked bolete;
Boletus edulis - Cep, Ontto Txuri, Penny Bun, funghi Porcini;
Boletus erythropus;
Boletus fragrans;
Boletus griseus;
Boletus impolitus;
Boletus luridus - Lurid bolete;
Boletus parasiticus;
Boletus pinophilus - Pinewood Penny Bun;
Boletus pulcherrimus (prev B. eastwoodiae);
Boletus purpureus ;
Boletus queletii ;
Boletus regius;
Boletus reticulatus (prev B. aestivalis) - Summer bolete;
Boletus rhodopurpureus ;
Boletus rhodoxanthus;
Boletus satanas -Devil's bolete;
Boletus splendidus;
Boletus subtomentosus;
Boletus zelleri;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="318567" title="All Things Must Pass" nonfiltered="151" processed="151" dbindex="450151">

All Things Must Pass is a triple album by George Harrison recorded and released after the break-up of The Beatles. The first triple album by a single artist, the original vinyl release featured two records of rock songs, while the third, entitled "Apple Jam" was composed of informal jams led by Harrison with musician friends.

Received as a masterpiece upon its 1970 unveiling, All Things Must Pass is widely considered to be among the very best albums made by a Beatle as a solo artist and one of the finer albums of the rock era. It is certified 6x Platinum by the RIAA, making it the best selling album by a solo Beatle.

History.
The outpouring of such consistently great material on All Things Must Pass took many critics by surprise, with Harrison having long been overshadowed by the talents of John Lennon and Paul McCartney, despite the fact that some of his later period Beatles inclusions ("While My Guitar Gently Weeps," "Something," and "Here Comes the Sun") were hailed as highlights of their respective albums. Consequently, as Harrison had only placed just a few songs on any given Beatles album, he had amassed many compositions by their break-up, enabling him to offload many of them in one go on All Things Must Pass.

Recorded from May to August 1970 at Abbey Road Studios, and then further recording and mixing at Trident Studios from August to September 1970, Harrison enlisted the aid of Phil Spector to co-produce the album, giving All Things Must Pass a heavy and reverb-oriented sound, typical for a 1960s/1970s Spector production   but a sound Harrison would subsequently regret with the passage of time. The album features the talents of Ringo Starr, Peter Frampton, members of Badfinger, Eric Clapton, Billy Preston, and a young Phil Collins who was about to join Genesis. Bob Dylan, a close friend of Harrison's, composed "I'd Have You Anytime" with him, while Harrison covered Dylan's "If Not For You", which had been recently released on Dylan's New Morning album. Alan White, later of Yes, stated that John Lennon played on "If Not For You".

All Things Must Pass lead single was "My Sweet Lord"   which proved an enormously popular recording, reaching #1 worldwide, earned Harrison an unfortunate copyright infringement suit from the publishers of The Chiffons's 1963 hit "He's So Fine"   a plagiarism grievance that would not be settled for years. (A judge later found that Harrison had unintentionally plagiarised the earlier song; this prompted Harrison to later write "This Song".) The album itself reached #4 in the UK and spent seven weeks at #1 in the U.S., eventually going six times platinum, making All Things Must Pass Harrison's most commercially successful and generally best-loved album.

Anglo-Australian pop singer Olivia Newton-John's cover of Harrison's "What Is Life" reached the UK top twenty in 1972. (The year before, she reached the top ten with a cover of Dylan's "If Not For You", arranged similarly to Harrison's version; in the US, her version became her first successful pop single,reaching #25. She would cover another song from All Things Must Pass, "Behind That Locked Door").

A remastered edition of All Things Must Pass, supervised by Harrison, was released in 2001, just months before his death; it contained bonus tracks, including a partially re-recorded additional version of "My Sweet Lord". It also included a newly colourised version of the originally monochrome cover. With the original version of the album being concurrently deleted, the remastered edition of All Things Must Pass is the only commercially available version of the release. Many have criticized the digital re-mastering, which though now quiter in the backround, has been robbed of much of its' high end. As a response, an unofficial 2006 "Dr.Ebbett's" CD re-mastering has appeared, sourced from pristine unplayed USA Lp pressings. This particular private CD issue sounds pretty much exactly the same as the original USA Apple label LP's. There is no high end loss.

On July 29, 2006, The Official UK Charts company changed their records because there was a postal strike when the album had originally been on the charts. Since record retailers had to send in records of how many records had been sold, they could not during an eight-week period in 1971. All Things Must Pass, which had originally peaked at number 4 (with Simon and Garfunkel's Bridge Over Troubled Water at number one), now has been given the number one spot for all eight weeks.



Track listing.
All songs by George Harrison, except where noted.

Original release.
Studio album.

Side One

"I'd Have You Anytime" (George Harrison/Bob Dylan)   2:56;
"My Sweet Lord"   4:38;
 Harrison was sued in the spring of 1971 by the publishers of "He's So Fine" for copyright infringement, with the case finally being settled in 1981 with a royalty payment;
"Wah-Wah"   5:35 ;
 Written about Paul McCartney in 1969 as The Beatles were heading towards their break-up;
"Isn't It A Pity (Version 1)"   7:08;

Side Two
"What Is Life"   4:22;
"If Not For You" (Bob Dylan)   3:29;
"Behind That Locked Door"   3:05;
 Written for Bob Dylan following his performance at the Isle of Wight;
"Let It Down"   4:57;
"Run Of The Mill"   2:49;

Side Three
"Beware Of Darkness"   3:48;
"Apple Scruffs"   3:04;
 Written about the Apple Records groupies who routinely hung around the studios, nicknamed "apple scruffs";
"Ballad Of Sir Frankie Crisp (Let It Roll)"   3:46;
 Sir Frankie Crisp was the original proprietor of Harrison's mansion, Friar Park in Henley-on-Thames, which he purchased in 1970;
"Awaiting On You All"   2:45;
"All Things Must Pass"   3:44;

Side Four
"I Dig Love"   4:55;
"Art Of Dying"   3:37;
 Originally written in 1966;
 Features 19-year-old Phil Collins on percussion;
"Isn't It A Pity (Version 2)"   4:45;
 An alternate version of "Isn't It A Pity";
"Hear Me Lord"   5:46;

Apple Jam.

Side Five
"Out Of The Blue" (Jim Gordon/Carl Radle/Bobby Whitlock/Eric Clapton/Gary Wright/George Harrison/Jim Price/Bobby Keys/Al Aronowitz)   11:14;
"It's Johnny's Birthday" (Based upon "Congratulations" - Martin/Coulter)   0:49;
 Recorded in August 1970 with Ringo Starr and presented to John Lennon on 9 October in celebration of his 30th birthday;
"Plug Me In" (Jim Gordon/Carl Radle/Bobby Whitlock/Eric Clapton/Dave Mason/George Harrison)   3:18;

Side Six
"I Remember Jeep" (Ginger Baker/Klaus Voormann/Billy Preston/Eric Clapton/George Harrison)   8:07;
 Uses white noise from Harrison's 1969 Electronic Sound album track "No Time Or Space";
 "Jeep" was the name of Eric Clapton's dog that had been stolen;
"Thanks For The Pepperoni" (Jim Gordon/Carl Radle/Bobby Whitlock/Eric Clapton/Dave Mason/George Harrison)   5:31;
 Sides 5 and 6 were originally issued on the vinyl edition of All Things Must Pass as "Apple Jam" and feature, among others, Eric Clapton, Ginger Baker and Billy Preston;

2001 Remaster.
In 2000, George Harrison personally oversaw the remastering of All Things Must Pass - the beginning of a re-issue project that was to see all his albums refurbished. Harrison lived long enough only to witness All Things Must Pass re-release in January 2001 on his own GN Records imprint, distributed by EMI.

Besides the colorfully re-imagined cover art, the two studio albums have been spilt across the two CDs, with bonus material appearing at the end of the first disc, and the "Apple Jam" - with an adjusted sequence - concluding the second disc.

Disc one.
"I'd Have You Anytime" (George Harrison/Bob Dylan)   2:56;
"My Sweet Lord"   4:38;
"Wah-Wah"   5:35 ;
"Isn't It A Pity (Version 1)"   7:08;
"What Is Life"   4:22;
"If Not For You" (Bob Dylan)   3:29;
"Behind That Locked Door"   3:05;
"Let It Down"   4:57;
"Run Of The Mill"   2:49;
"I Live For You"   3:35;
 A 2000 recording of a previously unreleased track from the 1970 sessions for All Things Must Pass ;
"Beware Of Darkness"   3:19;
 An acoustic run-through of the song recorded on 27 May 1970 at the start of the sessions;
"Let It Down"   3:54;
 An acoustic run-through of the song recorded on 27 May 1970 at the start of the sessions, with a keyboard overdub effected in 2000 ;
"What Is Life"   4:27;
 An early mix of the song's backing track on 9 August 1970 with piccolo trumpet and oboe;
"My Sweet Lord (2000)"   4:57;
 A re-working of the original 1970 recording with new overdubs in 2000, including backing vocal from Sam Brown;

Disc two.
"Beware Of Darkness"   3:48;
"Apple Scruffs"   3:04;
"Ballad Of Sir Frankie Crisp (Let It Roll)"   3:46;
"Awaiting On You All"   2:45;
"All Things Must Pass"   3:44;
"I Dig Love"   4:55;
"Art Of Dying"   3:37;
"Isn't It A Pity (Version 2)"   4:45;
"Hear Me Lord"   5:46;
"It's Johnny's Birthday" (Based upon "Congratulations" - Martin/Coulter)   0:49;
"Plug Me In" (Jim Gordon/Carl Radle/Bobby Whitlock/Eric Clapton/Dave Mason/George Harrison)   3:18;
"I Remember Jeep" (Ginger Baker/Klaus Voormann/Billy Preston/Eric Clapton/George Harrison)   8:07;
"Thanks For The Pepperoni" (Jim Gordon/Carl Radle/Bobby Whitlock/Eric Clapton/Dave Mason/George Harrison)   5:31;
"Out Of The Blue" (Jim Gordon/Carl Radle/Bobby Whitlock/Eric Clapton/Gary Wright/George Harrison/Jim Price/Bobby Keys/Al Aronowitz)   11:16;

Personnel.
The following musicians are credited on the 2001 release:
 Guitars:  George Harrison, Eric Clapton, Dave Mason, Peter Frampton;
 Bass guitar: Klaus Voorman, Carl Radle;
 Keyboards: Gary Wright, Bobby Whitlock, Billy Preston, Gary Brooker;
 Drums and percussion: Ringo Starr, Jim Gordon, Alan White, Phil Collins;
 Pedal steel guitar: Pete Drake;
 Tenor saxophone: Bobby Keys;
 Trumpet: Jim Price;
 Rhythm guitars and percussion: Badfinger;
 Fender Rhodes and backing vocals ("I Live for You") and ("My Sweet Lord", 2000 version): Dhani Harrison;
 Tambourine ("My Sweet Lord", 2001 version): Ray Cooper;
 Additional lead vocals ("My Sweet Lord", 2001 version): Sam Brown;

Cover versions.
Billy Preston covered "My Sweet Lord" and "All Things Must Pass" on his 1970 album Encouraging Words;
Galaxie 500 covered "Isn't It a Pity" on their 1989 album On Fire;

External links.
 The official All Things Must Pass website;
 Beatles Recorded Sound Index entry;
















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3410631" title="Noel O'Flynn" nonfiltered="152" processed="152" dbindex="450152">
Noel O'Flynn (born December 1951) is an Irish Fianna F\E1il politician.  He is a TD for the constituency of Cork North Central.  Flynn was first elected to D\E1il \C9ireann in the 1997 general election and retained his seat at the 2002 general election.

In 2001, he caused controversy when he described all asylum-seekers as 'spongers and free-loaders'.  His remarks were criticised by his party leader, Bertie Ahern as 'unhelpful'.

External links.
Noel O'Flynn's website;
Noel O'Flynn's page on the Fianna F\E1il website;
Noel O'Flynn's electoral history (ElectionsIreland.org);
http://www.ireland.com/focus/election_2002/biogs/oflynn_noel.htm;











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="62768" title="D\E9agol" nonfiltered="153" processed="153" dbindex="450153">

D\E9agol is a minor though significant character in J. R. R. Tolkien's legendarium. His story is related in The Fellowship of the Ring, the first of three volumes comprising Tolkien's most famous novel, The Lord of the Rings, in the chapter "The Shadow of the Past".  

Biography.

Tolkien wrote that D\E9agol was a Stoor Hobbit who lived in a small community bound by kinship ties - akin to a clan. He had a friend named Sm\E9agol, whose grandmother was the matriarch of the community. 

In 2463 of the Third Age, D\E9agol became the third bearer of the One Ring, after Sauron and Isildur. After it was lost for hundreds of years, he found the Ring while fishing with Sm\E9agol in the Gladden river (a tributary to the Anduin).

Enticed by its beauty, Sm\E9agol demanded the Ring as his "birthday-present". When D\E9agol refused to give it up, he was choked to death. Sm\E9agol hid his body, which was never found; nevertheless, the murderer (nicknamed Gollum after the swallowing noises he made) was eventually driven from his home.


Name.
D\E9agol is an Old English translation of the "original" Westron name Nahald (as Tolkien pretended that his writings were translated from the Red Book of Westmarch, a collection of several books containing memoirs of his heroes among other things). Both names carry the meaning "apt to hide, secretive".

Adaptations.
D\E9agol appears in the prologue to Ralph Bakshi's 1978 animated adaptation of The Lord of the Rings.  

In Peter Jackson's 2001-2003 live-action adaptations of The Lord of the Rings, D\E9agol is played by New Zealand actor Thomas Robins. His scenes with Andy Serkis (Sm\E9agol/Gollum) were originally planned to be in The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, but were moved to The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.

Notes.




External links.
 ;















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1181426" title="Candel\E1ria (Madalena)" nonfiltered="154" processed="154" dbindex="450154">


Candel\E1ria is a parish in the district of Madalena in the Azores.  The population in 2001 is 892, its density is 28.1/km\B2 and the area is 31.72 km\B2.

Information.

The parish is located in the western part of the municipality and is linked with a road encircling the entire island.  The area are hilly and mountainous in the east.  Farmlands are within the parish as well as the road.  Forests dominates the mountain areas.  The Atlantic Ocean lies to the west.

The municipality is around 5 km long from east to west and varies up to as long as 1.5 km wide from north to south.

Other.

Candel\E1ria has a school, a few churches, a port and a square.  Its nearest middle and secondary schools are in Madalena.

External links.
 Santo Amaro on azoren-online.com;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5779986" title="Howard Carter (early Pentecostal evangelist)" nonfiltered="155" processed="155" dbindex="450155">
Alfred Howard Carter (1891-1971) was one of the greatest pioneers of the Pentecostal Christian faith.

 While serving in prison .

Carter was born in London.  During the time of World War I, Carter served in a prison in England as a conscientious objector to the war.  While serving in prison, he claimed to have received the revelation of the nine gifts of the Holy Spirit. These teachings, based on the text of 1 Corinthians 12:8-10, are still used today as the primary teaching on the gifts of the Spirit within all major Pentecostal Christian belief systems.

 The Crown Mission .

In 1913 an organization called the Crown Mission began in Birmingham. Shortly thereafter, Carter would become the leader of this group. By 1916 he became involved in a second Pentecostal work, and had to quit his regular work to maintain leadership of the two churches. 

 Hampstead Bible School .

In 1921 Carter was handed over leadership of Hampstead Bible School, originally to be on a temporary basis until a more suitable person was available to fill the opening. That never happened, as he held this position for some twenty seven years. Under Carter's leadership the school grew so much that they had to purchase a nearby house and two more Bible schools were opened up. 

He took his work so seriously at the school that he did not receive any of the money donated to the school for his own use unless it was marked specifically for him, and he paid his own room and board to the school out of his salary. 

 Assemblies of God .

Howard Carter later became a founding member of the Assemblies of God Church in Ireland and Great Britain. He served on the General Council of these groups as vice-chairman from 1929-1934, and as chairman from 1934-1945.

 His final days .

Howard Carter left the Hampstead Bible School in 1948 and moved to the United States. He spent the rest of his life there and began to travel extensively as a preacher until his death in 1971.

 Howard Carter and Lester Sumrall .

Howard Carter and Lester Sumrall first met in Eureka Springs, Arkansas when Carter was in his forties and Sumrall was in his early twenties. They formed an immediate relationship and traveled the world together as missionaries preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Sumrall has written about Carter in his books Adventuring with Christ and Pioneers of Faith. Sumrall also expounds on Carter's teachings of the nine gifts of the Spirit in his book The Gifts and Ministries of the Holy Spirit.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8298158" title="T\FCrk Telekom League A 2006-07" nonfiltered="156" processed="156" dbindex="450156">
T\FCrk Telekom League A 2006-07 is the 2006-07 season of T\FCrk Telekom League A.
Current Standings.
As of December 12, 2006


Fixtures.
 Week 17;

 Week 18;


See also.
Turkcell Super League 2006-07;
Iddaa League B 2006-07;
Turkish Third League 2006-07;

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2248120" title="Closes Vol. 1" nonfiltered="157" processed="157" dbindex="450157">


Closes Vol. 1 is a cassette created and produced by Boards of Canada. It was released in the year 1992 to family and friends and later repressed as a CD in 1997. Numerous sonic devices, themes, and motifs can be heard which are present in later, more bodied works.

Track listing.
 "Treeline"   1:02;
 "Godever"   1:51;
 "True Map"   5:22;
 "Close1"   0:50;
 "5D"   5:21;
 "Focus On The Spiral"   1:28;
 "Tends Towards"   8:48;
 "Close2"   1:04;
 "Eye / Ear"   6:58;
 "Helios Sound"   0:30;
 "Ithcus Sound"   0:30;
 "Found The Way"   6:06;
 "Close3"   0:26;
 "Numerator (Original)"   6:31;
 "Fonec"   5:42;
 "Trillions"   3:19;
 "Close4"   0:34;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5603951" title="Duchy of Luxembourg" nonfiltered="158" processed="158" dbindex="450158">
For other uses of Luxembourg see Luxembourg (disambiguation);

The Duchy of Luxembourg was created when Emperor Charles IV elevated the old county of Luxembourg in 1353 for his brother Wenceslaus I.


Territory.
The duchy of Luxembourg was formed in 1353 by integration of the old county of the same name, the marquisat of Arlon, the counties of Durbuy and Laroche as well as the districts of Thionville, Bitburg and Marville. The county of Vianden can also be included as it had been a vassal of the counts and dukes of Luxembourg since about July 31 1264.

History.

the county.
In the year 963 count Siegfried of the Ardennes bought some land from the abbot Wikerus of Saint Maximin in Trier. This land was centered around a ruined, supposedly roman, fort by the latin name of Lucilinburhuc (which is commonly translated as little castle). In the following years Siegfried had a new castle built on the site of these ruins, on a rock that would later be called Bock Fiels. This castle dominated a stretch of the old roman road linking Reims, Arlon and Trier, which also opened some prospects for trade and taxation. Despite this new construction it seems that Siegfried and his immediate successors did not make the castle their primary residence.

In following years a small town and market grew around the new castle. The first inhabitants were probably servants of count Siegfried and clergy of Saint Michael's church. This settlement soon received additional protection by the construction of a first, partial city wall and moat.  In addition to the small town near Bock Fiels and the roman road, another settlement was formed in the Alzette Valley (today the Grund quarter). By 1083 this lower town contained two churches, two bridges of the rivers Alzette and Petruss. Its inhabitants pursued various professions including fishery, bakers and millers. That same year the Benedictine abbey of Altm\FCnster was founded by count Conrad on the hill behind Luxembourg castle.

Henry III was the first count known to have established his permanent residence in Luxembourg castle. In a document from the year 1089 he is referred to as comes Henricus de Lutzeleburg, which also makes him the first documented count of Luxembourg.

the duchy.

the grand duchy.
see History of Luxembourg

Rulers.
see List of Counts and Dukes of Luxembourg

 References .

 Ermesinde et l'affranchissement de la ville de Luxembourg; Etudes sur la femme, le pouvoir et la ville au XIIIe si\E8cle, sous la direction de Michel Margue, Publications du Mus\E9e d'Histoire de la Ville de Luxembourg, Publications du CLUDEM tome 7, Luxembourg 1994;
 Tatsachen aus der Geschichte des Luxemburger Landes, Dr. P. J. M\FCller, Luxemburg 1963, Berlag "de Frendeskres", Imprimerie Bourg-Bourger;
 Vivre au Moyen Age: Luxembourg, Metz et Tr\E8ves; Etudes sur l'histoire et l'arch\E9ologie urbaines, sous la direction du Mus\E9e d'Histoire de la Ville de Luxembourg, Publications Scientifiques du Mus\E9e d'Histoire de la Ville de Luxembourg, tome 2, Luxembourg 1998;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1173689" title="Stress fracture" nonfiltered="159" processed="159" dbindex="450159">

This article is about stress fractures in bones. For stress fractures in engineering, see fracture and fatigue (material).;

A stress fracture is one type of incomplete fractures in bones.  It could be described as a very small sliver or crack in the bone; this is why it is sometimes dubbed "hairline fracture". It typically occurs in weight-bearing bones, such as the tibia/fibula (bones of the lower leg) and metatarsals (bones of the foot). It is a common sports injury.

Symptoms.
Stress fractures usually have a narrow list of symptoms. It could present as a generalized area of pain, tenderness, and pain with weight-bearing. Usually when running, a stress fracture has severe pain in the beginning of the run, moderate pain in the middle of the run, and severe pain at the end and after the run.

Workup.
As with most diseases, a stress fracture is best diagnosed after interview and examination by an astute physician.  Investigations are not necessary to diagnose a stress fracture.

X-rays usually do not show any evidence of stress fractures, so a CT scan, MRI, or 3-phase bone scan may be more effective in unclear cases. Histological examination of the bone is the most accurate test, but it obviously can only be performed on amputated limbs or during autopsy of patients who have died.

Treatment.
If a stress fracture occurs in a weightbearing bone, healing will be delayed or prevented by continuing to put weight on that limb.

Rest is the only way to completely heal a stress fracture. The average time of complete rest from the activity that caused the stress fracture is one week. A fracture requires 4 to 8 weeks of recuperation, however, which may include no more than light use of the injured body part, as long as activity does not cause pain. After the recuperative period, another 2 weeks of mild activity without any pain may be recommended before the bone may be safely considered healed and activity may gradually increase. 

During this time, it is advised that training errors be identified (for instance, too much, too soon) and avoided in the future. One rule of thumb is to not increase the volume of training by more than 10% from one week to the next.

Rehabilitation usually consists of muscle strength training to help dissipate the excessive forces transmitted to the bones.

In some cases, an electronic stimulator or bone stimulator may be used. These devices send electrical impulses into the bone to promote healing; recent studies have shown that the bone heals naturally via electromagnetic stimulation. Electromagnetically stimulating the bone causes the bone to lay out more bone cells that strengthen the bone. 

Bracing or casting the limb with a hard plastic boot or air cast may also prove beneficial by taking some stress off the stress fracture. An air cast has pre-inflated cells that put light pressure on the bone, which promotes healing by increasing blood flow to the area and takes away a lot of the pain because of the pressure it applies to the bone. If the stress fracture is severe enough, crutches also help to take all stress off the bone.
 
With severe stress fractures, surgery may be needed for proper healing. The procedure may involve pinning the fracture site, and rehabilitation takes an average of six months.

Causes.
Bones are constantly attempting to remodel and repair themselves, especially during a sport where extraordinary stress is applied to the bone. Over time, if enough stress is placed on the bone that it exhausts the capacity of the bone to remodel, a weakened site -- a stress fracture -- on the bone may appear.  The fracture does not appear suddenly.  It occurs from repeated traumas, none of which is sufficient to cause a sudden break, but which, when added together, overwhelm the osteoblasts that remodel the bone.

Stress fractures commonly occur in sedentary people who suddenly undertake a burst of exercise (whose bones are not used to the task). They may also occur in Olympic-class athletes who do extraordinary quantities of high-impact exercise, or in soldiers who march long distances.

Muscle fatigue can also play a role in the occurrence of stress fractures. For every mile a runner runs, more than 110 tons of force must be absorbed by the legs.  Bones are not made to stand that much energy on their own and the muscles act as shock absorbers for the excess force. But, as muscles become tired and stop absorbing most of the shock, the bones experience greater amounts of stress. Finally, when muscles (usually in the lower leg) become so fatigued that they stop absorbing any shock, all forces are transferred to the bones.

Frequency.
Dr. Johnathan C Reeser states that, in the US, the annual incidence of stress fractures range from 5% to 30%, depending on the sport and other risk factors. Stress fractures occur less frequently in African Americans compared to Caucasians due to a higher BMD (bone mineral density). Women and highly-active individuals are also at a higher risk. The incidence probably also increases with age due to age-related reductions in BMD. But children may also be at risk because their bones have yet to reach full density and strength. The female athlete triad also can put women at risk, as disordered eating and osteoporosis can cause the bones to be severely weakened.

Prevention.
One method of avoiding stress fractures is by adding more stress to the bones. Although counter-intuitive given that stress fractures are caused by too much stress on the bones, when moderate stress is applied to the bone in a controlled manner, the bone becomes stronger and less susceptible to a stress fracture. An easy way to do this is to follow one widely known rule for runners, which states that mileage should be increased by no more than 10% per week. This allows the bones to adapt to the added stress so they are able to withstand greater amounts of stress in the future.

Strengthening exercises also help build more muscle strength in the legs. Strengthening these  muscles will stop them from getting fatigued so quickly, which allows them to absorb the pounding of running for longer periods of time. Key muscles that need to be strengthened with lower leg stress fractures are the calves and the shin muscles.

Depending on a variety of factors including weight, running surface and shoe durability, runners should replace their shoes every 300-700 miles to allow adequate mid-sole cushioning. A change in the choice of running surfaces can also help prevent stress fractures.

When performing any exercise that applies more stress to the bones, it may be wise to increase calcium and vitamin D intake, depending on the individual. Also, it is important to monitor foods eaten because nutrition plays a vital role in bone development. Certain individuals are at risk of osteoporosis, and depending on the country in which medical care is being supplied, there may be a screening program in place.

References.
 Reeser, Johnathan C., MD, PhD. (2004, October 1). Stress Fracture. eMedicine. Retrieved April 29, 2005 from the World Wide Web: http://www.emedicine.com/pmr/topic134.htm;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="706420" title="Paul Michael Valley" nonfiltered="160" processed="160" dbindex="450160">
Paul Michael Valley (born September 24, 1965, in Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin) is a television actor.

Among his numerous soap credits, his most memorable and long-lasting role was his portrayal of Ryan Harrison on the soap opera Another World from 1990 to 1995.  He left the show when executive producer Jill Farren Phelps fired him and had his character shot to death by his brother Grant (Mark Pinter).

External links.
;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="606625" title="List of dadaistic pieces" nonfiltered="161" processed="161" dbindex="450161">


 Visual .

Marcel Duchamp;
"L.H.O.O.Q.";
"Bicycle Wheel";
"Fountain";
"Prelude to a Broken Arm";

Man Ray;
"Emak-Bakia";

 Musical .

Erik Satie;
"Rel\E2che'" (www.allclassical.com, Alan Gillmor, Robert Orledge);


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7606440" title="Efimov State" nonfiltered="162" processed="162" dbindex="450162">
Efimov State is a quantum mechanical stable bound state of three particles, with any two particle subsystem is unstable. This unusual state has infinite number of energy levels. It was proposed by Vitaly Efimov in 1970 theoretically. In 2006, a group of experimental physicists claimed to observe such a state in ultracold gas of caesium atoms.

References.


External links.
 Press release about the experimental confirmation;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="330647" title="Princess Victoria Alexandra of the United Kingdom" nonfiltered="163" processed="163" dbindex="450163">
For other persons known as Princess Victoria, see Princess Victoria (disambiguation);

The Princess Victoria (Victoria Alexandra Olga Mary; 6 July 1868-3 December 1935) was a member of the British Royal Family, the fourth child and second daughter of King Edward VII. 

Early life.
Princess Victoria was born on 6 July 1868 at Marlborough House, London. Her father was The Prince Albert Edward, Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII), the eldest son of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha. Her mother was The Princess of Wales (n\E9e Princess Alexandra of Denmark), the daughter of King Christian IX of Denmark and Princess Louise of Hesse-Cassel. As the granddaughter of the British monarch she was styled Her Royal Highness Princess Victoria of Wales. She was known to her family as Toria.

She was christened at Marlborough House on 6 August 1868 by Archibald Campbell Tait, Bishop of London and her godparents were: Queen Victoria, The Emperor of Russia, The Tsarevitch of Russia, The Prince Arthur, Prince Ludwig of Hesse and by Rhine, Prince George of Hesse-Cassel, The Queen of Greece, The Dowager Queen of Denmark, The Dowager Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, The Princess of Teck and The Princess Friedrich of Anhalt-Dessau.

Princess Victoria of Wales was educated by tutors and spent her childhood at Marlborough House and Sandringham. The Princess was particularly close to her brother, the future King George V.

Royal life.
Although she had a number of suitors, Princess Victoria never married. Her mother, Alexandra, is believed to have actively discouraged her from marrying.  Instead she remained a companion to her parents, particularly her mother, with whom she lived until Queen Alexandra's death in 1925. The Princess then set up her own home at Coppins, Iver, in Buckinghamshire. She took a particular interest in the village life, becoming honorary president of the Iver Horticultural Society.

Later life.

Princess Victoria died at home in December 1935. Her funeral took place at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle and she was buried at Frogmore Royal Burial Ground, Windsor Great Park. Her death greatly affected George V, who died one month later.

Titles, Styles, Honours & Arms.

Titles.
1868-1901: Her Royal Highness Princess Victoria of Wales;
1901-1935: Her Royal Highness The Princess Victoria;

Honours.
6 August 1887: Imperial Order of the Crown of India;
First Class of the Royal Order of Victoria and Albert;
Dame Grand Cross of the Order of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem;

Sources.
"Princess Victoria, His Majesty's Sister, A Quiet Home Life," The Times, 4 December 1935, p. 18, column A.

Ronald Allison and Sarah Ridell, The Royal Encyclopedia (London: Macmillan, 1992).













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7689944" title="Washingtonville Middle School" nonfiltered="164" processed="164" dbindex="450164">


Washingtonville Middle School is the middle school for the Washingtonville Central School District. It is located, unsurprisingly, in the Orange County village of Washingtonville.

The building, located adjacent to the district's high school on Route 94, once served as the high school.

External links.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2469081" title="Show cave" nonfiltered="165" processed="165" dbindex="450165">


A show cave is a cave or cave system containing interesting or spectacular features that are easily accessible to the general public.

Examples of show caves.

Blanchard Springs Caverns in Arkansas;
Blue John Cavern in Derbyshire, England   spectacular mineral displays;
Carlsbad Caverns in New Mexico;
Gough's Cave, Cheddar Gorge, Somerset, England;
Grotte des Demoiselles in France;
Gunns Plains Cave in Tasmania, Australia.
Gunung Mulu National Park in Malaysia;
Jenolan Caves in Blue Mountains of New South Wales; about 100 km west of Sydney, Australia.
Luray Caverns in Virginia;
Meramec Caverns in Missouri;
Mammoth Cave in Kentucky;
Waitomo Caves in New Zealand   home of the famous Glowworm Grotto;
Wookey Hole, Somerset, England;

External link.

ShowCaves.com;





Badlands, SD


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5743279" title="Carway" nonfiltered="166" processed="166" dbindex="450166">
For Carway, Alberta, see Carway, Alberta.;

Carway is a village situated to the north of the town of Llanelli in the county of Carmarthenshire, Wales. It is part of the Llanelli Rural community.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1223953" title="List of political parties in Macau" nonfiltered="167" processed="167" dbindex="450167">


Political parties in Macau lists political parties in Macau. 
Macau is a state in which political parties don't play a role. Though some civic groups that put forward lists at the elections exist. The following is a listing of those associations that participated in the last legislative elections:
Alian\E7a para Desenvolvimento de Macau (Alliance for the Development of Macau) ;
Associa\E7\E3o de Apoio \E0 Comunidade e Proximidade do Povo (Association for Helping the Community and Engagement with the People) ;
Associa\E7\E3o de Novo Macau Democr\E1tico (New Democratic Macau Association);
Associa\E7\E3o dos Cidad\E3os Unidos de Macau (United Citizens Association of Macau);
Associa\E7\E3o Pela Democracia e Bem-estar Social de Macau (Association for Democracy and Social Well-Being of Macau);
Associa\E7\E3o Vis\E3o de Macau (Vision Macau);
Converg\EAncia para o Desenvolvimento (Convergence for Development);
Nova Esperan\E7a (New Hope);
Nova Juventude de Macau (New Youth of Macau);
Uni\E3o Geral para O Bem-querer de Macau (General Union for the Good of Macau);
Uni\E3o para o Desenvolvimento (Union for Development);
Uni\E3o Promotora para o Progresso (Union for Promoting Progress);

Defunct parties
Associa\E7\E3o Promotora para a Economia de Macau (Association for Promoting the Economy of Macau);
Associa\E7\E3o dos Empregados e Assalariados (Employees and Wager-Earners Association);
Uni\E3o Geral para o Desenvolvimento de Macau (General Union for Development of Macau);



See also.
 Chinese Political Parties;
 Index of political parties to browse parties by name;
 List of political parties to browse parties by country;
 List of political parties by ideology to browse parties by name;
 Membership of internationals to browse parties by membership of internationals;
List of political parties in the Republic of China before and after 1949;
List of political parties in mainland China;
List of political parties in Hong Kong;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="9265363" title="Dafydd Passe" nonfiltered="168" processed="168" dbindex="450168">
Dafydd Passe is a Welsh politician and member of Plaid Cymru. Dafydd Passe is standing for election for Alyn and Deeside in the National Assembly for Wales election, 2007


Dafydd Passe was born in Bangor, Gwynedd and currently lives in Ruabon. A Process Engineer, Dafydd Passe's political interests include renewable energy and utilities. Dafydd Passe sees sustainable economic development as imperative to the revival of Alyn & Deeside and wishes to see devolution brought closer to the people of Wales, wherever they live. 

Dafydd Passe's non-political interests include rugby and gardening.


 Sources .

Pliad Cymru Website ;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7809494" title="Shire of Corrigin" nonfiltered="169" processed="169" dbindex="450169">



The Shire of Corrigin is a Local Government Area of Western Australia based in the town of Corrigin (; post code: 6375). It covers an area of about 3,100 km\B2 in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia about 230km east-south-east of the capital, Perth. It has a population of 1,276 (ABS 2001) and the economy, worth approximately $50 million per year to the state economy, is based on agriculture - predominantly cereal grains and sheep, with some supporting industries including a flour mill.

History.
From 1891 until 1913, different parts of the area was managed by Morambine (Pingelly), Greenhills and Brookton Road Boards. In 1913, after the announcement of a proposed railway from Brookton on the Great Southern Railway to terminate in the town of Kunjin, the Kunjinn Road Board was gazetted. The first Board members held their meetings in a small timber and iron building with their first ever purchase being a billy, tea and sugar. After only three meetings, it was decided to shift the meeting venue to the new townsite of Corrigin as Kunjin was no longer under consideration as the major rail junction. Accordingly, in 1914, it changed name to the Corrigin Road Board. On 1 July 1961, it became the Shire Council following changes to the Local Government Act.

Wards.
The shire has been divided into 3 wards, each of 3 councillors:

 North Ward;
 Central Ward;
 South Ward;

Towns/Localities.
 Corrigin;
 Bullaring;
 Kunjin;

References.


External links.
 Shire of Corrigin;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7181930" title="Atat\FCrk Cultural Center" nonfiltered="170" processed="170" dbindex="450170">
Atat\FCrk Cultural Center (Turkish: Atat\FCrk K\FClt\FCr Merkezi), called also simply as AKM, is a multi-purpose cultural center located in Taksim Square of stanbul, Turkey.

The complex comprises the "Grand Stage", a hall with a 1,307 seat capacity for opera, ballet and theater events and the "Concert Hall", a second hall with a capacity of 502 seats for concerts, meetings and conferences as well as an exhibition hall of 1,200 m\B2 at the entrance. There are also the "Chamber Theatre" with 296 seats, "Aziz Nesin Stage" with 190 seats and a cinema hall with 206 seats.

The center is home to the Istanbul State Symphony Orchestra and Choir ( stanbul Devlet Senfoni Orkestras  ve Korosu), Istanbul State Modern Folk Music Ensemble ( stanbul Devlet Modern Halk M\FCzi i Toplulu u) and Istanbul State Classical Turkish Music Choir ( stanbul Devlet Klasik T\FCrk M\FCzi i Korosu). During the summer and Informationmonths, AKM hosts the Istanbul Arts and Culture Festival. 

The complex is a rebuilding of the former AKM that was burnt                         down in a fire on November 27, 1970 durng a performance.

References.
 MyMerhaba;
 Governmental Press and Information Office;
 Istanbul European Choir website;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2305080" title="Combined gas law" nonfiltered="171" processed="171" dbindex="450171">
The combined gas law is a gas law which combines Charles's law, Boyle's law, and Gay-Lussac's law. In each of these laws, pressure, temperature, and volume, respectively, must remain constant for the law to be true.  In the combined gas law, any of these properties can be found mathematically.

The law states that:

The product of the volume of a gas and its pressure over the temperature is equal to a constant.;

Expressed mathematically, the formula is:

;

where:

p is the pressure.
V is the volume.
T is the temperature (measured in kelvin in SI units).
r is a constant.

For comparing the same substance under two different sets of conditions, the law can be written as:

;

We can however remove  from the equation because it is constant when changing only the conditions, to make:

;

The addition of Avogadro's law to the combined gas law yields the ideal gas law.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="130666" title="Capron, Oklahoma" nonfiltered="172" processed="172" dbindex="450172">
Capron is a town in Woods County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 42 at the 2000 census.

Geography.

Capron is located at  (36.896307, -98.578351).

According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 0.3 km\B2 (0.1 mi\B2), all land.

Demographics.
As of the census of 2000, there were 42 people, 17 households, and 10 families residing in the town. The population density was 147.4/km\B2 (370.2/mi\B2). There were 20 housing units at an average density of 70.2/km\B2 (176.3/mi\B2). The racial makeup of the town was 100.00% White.

There are 17 households, out of which 23.5% have children under the age of 18 living with them, 58.8% were married couples living together, 5.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.3% were non-families. 29.4% of all households are made up of individuals, and 11.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.47 and the average family size was 3.18.

In the town the population is spread out, with 19.0% under the age of 18, 7.1% from 18 to 24, 33.3% from 25 to 44, 28.6% from 45 to 64, and 11.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42 years. For every 100 females there were 133.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 112.5 males.

The median income for a household in the town was $24,250, and the median income for a family was $23,750. Males had a median income of $22,500 versus $16,250 for females. The per capita income for the town was $11,156. None of the population and none of the families were below the poverty line.

History.
Prior to the opening of the Cherokee Strip in 1893, Capron, Oklahoma was first known as "Warren", a small cattle station on the main line of the Santa Fe railroad. It consisted of a store, and an old railroad car left by the Santa Fe. Sometime after the opening of the strip residents wanted to come up with a new name for the growing town. The name was changed to "Sterling", but the postal service and Santa Fe would not accept it because there was a town by that name on their line in Kansas. The names of "Virgil" and "Kermit" were proposed, but Santa Fe would not accept these names, for the same reason. Therefore, a committee consisting of Mr. George Espy, postmaster, Dr. G.W. Todd, and Congressman Dennis Flynn was appointed to select a name which the Santa Fe and Postal Service would accept. The name of Captain Allyn K. Capron, Jr. was proposed. Captain Capron was a member of Teddy Roosevelt's Rough Riders, and had been killed at the battle of San Juan Hill. The name of "Capron" was approved by a petition of the residents. The Santa Fe and U. S. Postal service accepted the name and so it stands today.

At one time Capron was quite a thriving community. It had two banks; the Bank of Capron, and the Capron State Bank; three general stores; two drug stores; a hotel; depot; a millinery shop; theater; blacksmith; a weekly newspaper, The Capron Hustler; a monthly newspaper, The Screech Owl; two barber shops; hardware store; lumber yard; two churches, Warburton Memorial Methodist Church, and First Congregational Church; the Driftwood Telephone Company and Hampton's Foot Powder Factory.

In April 1939 a tornado struck Capron, making a straight line down the main business street. Many of the residents of town did not even know the tornado has struck until the next morning when they went downtown to open their stores and found them gone. Most tornados sound like trains, and since a train goes through Capron about every 20 minutes no one noticed! Most of the above businesses, and the public school building, which was only 10 years old, were destroyed. The majority of these businesses were never rebuilt. However, the public schools were rebuilt.

Capron was always concerned with having a good school system. In 1894 a small but enterprising group of Driftwood Township citizens provided for the establishment of the first Capron Public Schools. The school consisted of grades 1 8 and consisted of a two-room frame building located south and east of the present south Coop Grain Elevator. This building proved adequate until 1909 when a new two-story brick building was built in the north end of town at the site of the present school building. The cost of the 1909 building was $8,500.00. In 1929 residents approved the building of a new one-story building with a large gymnasium and auditorium attached. The old two-story building was torn down to make way for this modern facility. This building was destroyed in the 1939 tornado and a new building, auditorium and gymnasium were built in 1940. At the time, this facility was considered to be one of the best schools in northwest Oklahoma. Additions to the present building were made: in 1952, vocational agriculture building; 1956, additional classrooms and music room; and 1964, when a new cafeteria was added to the school. The high school was first accredited in 1912. In 1968 the high school was closed due to falling enrollment. There were no families in the school district on public assistance in 1968, and the patrons of the district never voted down a tax increase for their school; they wanted the very best for their children. The Elementary School, grades K 8 were closed in 1976 by a vote of the patrons which carried by only one vote. The vote was contested. This decision was taken to court and eventually upheld by the Oklahoma Supreme Court. Today Capron has two large concrete grain elevators, a rural water district office, United Methodist Church, garage, filling station, and American Legion Post. The Post Office closed in 1994 after 100 years of service to the citizens of the area. It is hard to believe that any of this once thriving little center of trade ever existed and today lives only in the memories of many of its older residents.

External links.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2823760" title="Tonicity" nonfiltered="173" processed="173" dbindex="450173">
Tonicity is the ability of a solution to cause water movement. It is in reference to hypertonic, hypotonic and isotonic cellular states.

Tonicity differs between animal cells and plant cells. Since plants cells have a cell wall, instead of shrinking or bursting the plant cell is considered to be plasmolyzed if it is placed in a hypertonic solution and is considered to be in its normal state if it is placed in an isotonic solution. In a hypotonic solution the plant cell is considered to be in a turgid state.

It is very important to remember that tonicity is dependent on the water concentration(or any solvent), not the solute concentration. If a solution is hypotonic, the water concentration is greater outside the cell and so water rushes into the cell in order to equal out the water concentration. This causes animal cells (without a cell wall) to burst and for plant cells (which do have a cell wall) to become turgid. If the solution is isotonic, the water concentration is the same on either side of the cell membrane and so, while water does move from inside to outside the cell and vice versa, there is no net movement of water. If the solution is hypertonic, the water concentraion inside the cell is greater. This leads to water rushing out of the cell. Animal cells shrivel up and plant cells become plasmolysed (This is where the cell membrane pulls away from the cell wall in places as the cytoplasm shrinks. Note that the cell wall does not change shape.)

It is important also to note that tonicity applies to the impermeant solutes within a solvent, as opposed to osmolarity which takes into account both permeant and impermeant solutes.  For example, urea is a permeant solute, meaning it can pass the membrane freely, and will not be factored when determining the tonicity of a solution.  On the other hand, NaCl is impermeant, and cannot pass the membrane without the help of a concentration gradient, and will therefore contribute to a solution's tonicity.  It is then possible for a solution to be hypotonic, and yet be isoosmotic.
 
The elastic tension of living muscles, arteries, etc. that facilitates response to stimuli. Clinically, this is referred to as tonus (See muscle tone).

See also.
Osmole (unit)


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8460062" title="Klinai" nonfiltered="174" processed="174" dbindex="450174">
Klinai were the couches used by theAncient Romans in their Convivia. Three Klinai were arranged in a 'U' shape, which together with the adjoining 'T' formed the Triclinium, which was where the dinner guests reclined during the meal. 



 See Also .

Triclinium ;

Convivium;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5680804" title="Wolfsberg (district)" nonfiltered="175" processed="175" dbindex="450175">




Bezirk Wolfsberg is a district of the state of 
Carinthia in Austria.

 Municipalities .
Towns (St\E4dte) are indicated in boldface; market towns (Marktgemeinden) in italics; suburbs, hamlets and other subdivisions of a municipality are indicated in small characters.
Bad Sankt Leonhard im Lavanttal;
Bad St. Leonhard im Lavanttal, Erzberg, G\F6rlitzen, Gr\E4bern, Gr\E4bern, Kalchberg, Kliening, Lichtengraben, Mauterndorf, Prebl, Raning, Schiefling, Sch\F6nberg, Steinbruch, Twimberg, Wartkogel, Wiesenau, Wisperndorf;
Frantschach-Sankt Gertraud;
Frantschach, Hintergumitsch, Hinterw\F6lch, Kaltstuben, Kamp, Kamperkogel, Limberg, Oberg\F6sel, Praken, St. Gertraud, Trum-und Pr\F6ssinggraben, Unterg\F6sel, Vorderlimberg, Vorderw\F6lch, Zellach;
Lavam\FCnd;
Achalm, Ettendorf, Hart, Krottendorf, Lamprechtsberg, Lavam\FCnd, Lorenzenberg, Magdalensberg, Pfarrdorf, Plest\E4tten, Rabenstein, Rabensteingreuth, Schwarzenbach, St. Vinzenz, Unterbergen, Unterholz, Wei\DFenberg, Witternig, Wunderst\E4tten, Zeil;
Reichenfels;
Reichenfels, Sommerau, St. Peter im Lavanttal, Weitenbach;
Preitenegg;
Kleinpreitenegg, Oberauerling, Oberpreitenegg, Preitenegg, Unterauerling, Unterpreitenegg;
Sankt Andr\E4;
Aich, Blaiken, Burgstall-P\F6lling, Burgstall-St. Andr\E4, Dachberg, Eisdorf, Eitweg, Farrach, Fischering, Framrach, Gemmersdorf, Goding, G\F6nitz, Hainsdorf, H\F6fern, Jakling, Kienberg, Kleinedling, Kleinrojach, Kollegg, Lamm, Langegg, Langgen, Lindhof, Magersdorf, Maria Rojach, Messensach, Mettersdorf, Mitterpichling, Mosern, M\FChldorf, Oberagsdorf, Oberaigen, Obereberndorf, Oberpichling, Paierdorf, Pichling, Pirk, P\F6lling, Pustritz, Ragglach, Ragglbach, Reisberg, Scha\DFbach, Schobersberg, Sch\F6nweg-Pustritz, Sch\F6nweg-St. Andr\E4, Siebending, St. Andr\E4, St. Jakob, St. Ulrich, Streitberg, Tschrietes, Unteragsdorf, Unteraigen, Untereberndorf, Unterrain, V\F6lking, Wimpassing, Winkling-Nord, Winkling-S\FCd, W\F6lzing-Fischering, W\F6lzing-St. Andr\E4, Zellbach;
Sankt Georgen im Lavanttal;
Allersdorf, Andersdorf, Fransdorf, G\F6tzendorf, Gundisch, Herzogberg, Krakaberg, Matschenbloch, Niederhof, Oberrainz, Pfaffendorf, Pontnig, Raggane, St. Georgen im Lavanttal, Steinberg-Hart, Steinberg-Oberhaus, Steinberg-Unterhaus, Unterpichling, Unterpichling, Unterrainz;
Sankt Paul im Lavanttal;
Deutsch-Grutschen, G\F6nitz, Granitztal-St. Paul, Granitztal-Wei\DFenegg, Hundsdorf, Johannesberg, Kampach, Kollnitzgreuth, Legerbuch, Loschental, Schildberg, St. Margarethen, St. Martin, St. Paul im Lavanttal, Stadling, Unterhaus, Unterholz, Weinberg, Windisch-Grutschen, Winkling, Zellbach;
Wolfsberg;
Aichberg, Altendorf, Arling, Auen, Eselsdorf, Forst, Glein, Gr\E4bern, Gries, Gro\DFedling, Hartelsberg, Hartneidstein, Hattendorf, Hinterthei\DFenegg, Kleinedling, Kleinwinklern, Klippitzt\F6rl, K\F6tsch, Kragelsdorf, Lading, Lausing, Leiwald, Magersdorf, Maildorf, Michaelsdorf, Oberleidenberg, Paildorf, Pfaffendorf, Pollheim, Prebl, Preims, Priel, Raggl, Reding, Reideben, Reinfelsdorf, Reisberg, Rieding, Riegelsdorf, Ritzing, Schilting, Schleifen, Scho\DFbach, Schwemmtratten, Siegelsdorf, St. Jakob, St. Johann, St. Marein, St. Margarethen im Lavanttal, St. Michael, St. Stefan, St. Thomas, Th\FCrn, Unterleidenberg, V\F6lking, Vordergumitsch, Vorderthei\DFenegg, Waldenstein, Wei\DFenbach Gumitsch, Wei\DFenbach Rieding, Witra, Wois, Wolfsberg, Wolkersdorf, W\F6lling;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6319425" title="Control Area" nonfiltered="176" processed="176" dbindex="450176">
A Control Area (CTA) is an aviation term that describes a volume of controlled airspace that exists in the vicinity of an airport. It has a specified lower level and a specified upper level. It usually is situated on top of a Control Zone and provides protection to aircraft climbing out from the airport.

See also.
Airway (aviation);
Flight Information Region;
Terminal Control Area;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5177795" title="Beyond the Calm of the Corridor" nonfiltered="177" processed="177" dbindex="450177">


Beyond the Calm of the Corridor was the only album The Blank Theory released on New Line Records. It featured 13 tracks in total. Producer Adam Schlesinger of Fountains of Wayne and Ivy fame, Co-Producer James Iha (Smashing Pumpkins fame), contributed his guitar works on some of the songs.

Track listing.
 "Middle of Nowhere"   4:05;
 "Addicted"   3:44;
 "Father's Eyes"   3:09;
 "Sour Times"   3:35;
 "Killing Me"   4:04;
 "Invisible"   3:07;
 "Broken"   3:42;
 "Thicker"   3:11;
 "Back of My Mind"   3:30;
 "Recluse"   4:08;
 "Corporation"   3:14;
 "Fear of God"   3:45;
 "Martyr"   5:24;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6091571" title="WMLB (AM)" nonfiltered="178" processed="178" dbindex="450178">

WMLB, known onair since June 2006 as AM 1690 WMLB is a radio station licensed to Avondale Estates, Georgia and serves most of the Atlanta, Georgia radio market. They air a Nostalgia radio format, although they also play classical music, folk music, jazz, and select rock and roll. Their sister station is business talk radio station, Business Radio 1160 WCFO. WMLB used to belong at WCFO's dial position. When WMLB took over Atlanta's former Air America Radio affiliate, WWAA, WMLB became the Atlanta home of liberal talkshow host, Al Franken to appeal to listeners of the previous format. 

This station will be broadcasting in IBOC digital radio, using the HD Radio system from iBiquity in early 2007.

External links.
AM 1690 WMLB, The Voice of the Arts;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4684254" title="Samuel Collins" nonfiltered="179" processed="179" dbindex="450179">
Samuel Collins (1619 1670) was a British doctor and author. He is most notable for being personal physician to Tsar Aleksei Mikhailovich, during which time he wrote the book The Present State of Russia.

Biography. 
Born to a clerical family in Essex he entered Corpus Christi College, Cambridge in 1635 but for some reason took no degree at the university.  As was the fashion among those pursuing medical careers, he removed to Padua where he studied the healing arts and was graduated M.D. In or around 1660 Collins was approached by John Hedben, one of several men in Russian employ assigned the task of recruiting skilled Europeans for service at the court of Tsar Aleksei Mikhailovich.  Collins apparently found Hedben's proposal attractive, for he shortly moved to Moscow and took up residence.  He remained in the capital for nine years as personal physician to Tsar Aleksei. 

During this Collins gathered the material for The Present State of Russia.  He was not, however, able to finish the book himself, for he died in Paris in 1670.  The manuscript, in the form of a series of partially edited letters to Robert Boyle, was transmitted to the stationer by an unnamed attendant. Collins had corresponded with Boyle for years about scientific matters and he is frequently mentioned in Boyle's published writings.  After some very sloppy editing (for which the stationer apologizes), The Present State of Russia appeared anonymously in 1671.  A French translation was issued, also anonymously, in 1679.

External links.
 Extract from The Present State Of Russia;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3614268" title="Walter Bauer" nonfiltered="180" processed="180" dbindex="450180">
Walter Bauer (1877 - 17 November, 1960) was a scholar of the development of the early Christian churches.  

In his Rechtgl\E4ubigkeit und ketzerei im altesten Christentum (T\FCbingen 1934; translated as Orthodoxy and Heresy in Earliest Christianity 1971), Bauer developed his thesis that in earliest Christianity, orthodoxy and heresy do not stand in relation to one another as primary to secondary, but in many regions heresy is the original manifestation of Christianity. Bauer reassessed as a historian the overwhelmingly dominant view that for the period of Christian origins, ecclesiastical doctrine already represented what is primary, while heresies, on the other hand somehow are a deviation from the genuine (Bauer, Introduction).

Bauer's translator, Robert A. Kraft, characterized his sophisticated, nuanced writing style, which
"presents a complex and frustrating problem for the translator who hopes to capture something of the "tone" or "flavor" of the original as well as representing accurately its content. Bauer writes in a dynamic and highly sophisticated manner, mixing precision with irony and even insinuation, pictorial language with careful presentation of the historical evidence, hypotheses and caveats with the subtle use of overstatement and understatement in cleverly nuanced expressions. His German is literary but not necessarily formal. Long sentences with closely interrelated parts appear alongside brief, sometimes cryptic or oblique comments couched in clever, often scholarly German idiom. Frequently the presentation flows along rapidly in an exciting manner, despite the difficulties of the subject matter  but its flow is such that the motion is difficult to capture in translation, and is sometimes even difficult to follow in the original.";

Through studies of historical records Bauer concluded that what came to be known as orthodoxy was just one of numerous forms of Christianity in the early centuries.  It was the form of Christianity practiced in Rome that acquired the majority of converts over time.  This was largely due to the greater resources available to the Christians in Rome and due to the conversion to Christianity of the Roman Emperor Constantine I.  Practitioners of what became orthodoxy then rewrote the history of the conflict making it appear that this view had always been the majority one.  Writings in support of other views were systematically destroyed.  Bauer's conclusions contradicted nearly 1600 years of essentially uncontested church history and thus was met with much skepticism among Christians.

The cultural isolation of Nazi Germany precluded a wider dissemination of Bauer's ideas until after World War II; Rechtgl\E4ubigkeit und ketzerei was finally translated into English in 1970 and published in 1971. In the international field of biblical scholarship, Bauer continued to be known solely as the compiler of the monumental W\F6rterbuch zu den Schriften des Neuen Testaments (in its English translation A Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament and Other Early Christian Literature or simply the Bauer lexicon), which has become standard. 

References.
Walter Bauer, 1971. Orthodoxy and Heresy in Earliest Christianity (Philadelphia: Fortress) ISBN 0-8006-1363-5.  Orthodoxy and Heresy in Earliest Christianity (on-line text in English);
 Bart D Ehrman, 2002. Lost Christianities: Christian Scriptures and the Battles over Authentication (Chantilly VA: The Teaching Company) , Lesson 19, pg 28.

Further reading.
Daniel J. Harrington, "The Reception of Walter Bauer's Orthodoxy and Heresy in Earliest Christianity During the Last Decade," in Harvard Theological Review 73 (1980): 289-98.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8244118" title="List of people by name: Will" nonfiltered="181" processed="181" dbindex="450181">




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="326273" title="Oriole Records (U.S.)" nonfiltered="182" processed="182" dbindex="450182">

Oriole Records was a record label of the 1920s and 1930s based in the United States. The label was sold new exclusively at the McCrory chain of Department stores.  

Audio fidelity of Oriole Records is somewhat below average for the era.

The Oriole label first appeared in 1921, selling for 25 cents per disc record. Originally, Oriole records were pressed by the Cameo Record Company (generally not from Cameo material, however), but this arrangement lasted only a month or two. Most of the masters were leased from other labels, early on mostly Emerson From around number 115, Orioles were pressed by Grey Gull and usually have unusual pairings of material, with one side being a hit popular tune and the other "standard" material, sometimes classical. At number 250, Orioles were suddenly pressed by Plaza Music, Banner and were the original label which was treated as a "cheap" label, using a standard set of "noms du disque" in common with Jewel, the Sears & Roebuck label Challenge, and a few others. Plaza-pressed Orioles used "control numbers" to disguise their matrix numbers; oddly enough, these were later to appear on the flagship Banner label. After Plaza was merged into the American Record Corporation, ARC matrix numbers replaced the control numbers. 

During the 1930-32 period, ARC dropped a number of their labels; however, Oriole continued, using the same number series (which eventually reached past 2000) as well as another series for country and race records. In August, 1935, all the low-priced labels in the ARC stable began using a new date-related numbering system, in which the last digit (originally the last two digits) of the year was followed by the number for the month and finally a two-digit serial number specific to that month's releases. Race and country records started their serial numbering at 51, so a blues record released in February, 1936 would carry a number like 6-02-51.

As the depression and the popularity of radio cut into record sales, most of the store labels were discontined; another factor was that the younger record buyers looked for specific versions of their favourite tunes, so name artists like Miller and Goodman made up the majority of discs sold. The last Oriole records seem to have been issued in January, 1937. All of the low-priced labels were dropped in April, 1938 and the American Record Corporation was acquired by the Columbia Broadcasting System later that year.

 See also .
 List of record labels;
 Oriole Records (UK);




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="970956" title="Lindsey McDonald" nonfiltered="183" processed="183" dbindex="450183">


Lindsey McDonald is a fictional character from the television series Angel. He first appeared in the series' first episode, "City of," and featured prominently in the story arcs of Seasons One, Two, and Five. Lindsey is portrayed by Christian Kane.

Character history.
Season One.
Born into a dirt-poor dysfunctional family in Oklahoma, Lindsey worked hard to overcome his upbringing. While studying at University of California, Hastings College of the Law, he was recruited for the corrupt corporation known as Wolfram & Hart. Starting in the mailroom, Lindsey quickly worked his way up, becoming one of Wolfram & Hart's most valued lawyers.

His good looks are only surpassed by his ambition. Lindsey legally represented many a vampire and demon, as well as evil humans. He meets Angel in the first episode in the series, when Angel kills Russell Winters, one of his vampire clients, by hurling him out the window of a tall building just after Lindsey had claimed that Angel couldn't touch the client in question. From that point on, Lindsey works to kill Angel, and is the co-architect of a plan to hire renegade Slayer Faith to do just that. This is not particularly well-received by his superiors, who want to keep Angel alive for their own reasons.

Lindsey experiences a crisis of conscience later, when Wolfram & Hart plan to kill a small group of innocent children, and he and Angel strike up a temporary alliance and are able to save the youngsters. After this, he is poised to leave Wolfram & Hart, but is wooed by a promotion and stays, becoming an integral player in the plan to resurrect Darla. During the ensuing battle, Angel chops off Lindsey's hand, forcing Lindsey to use an artificial one. This only further cements his hatred for Angel.

Season Two.
When Darla is returned to life, Lindsey becomes enamored with the now-human Darla, and is present when she is re-sired by Drusilla. His infatuation does not end when Darla becomes a vampire, and he is one of only two spared by Darla and Drusilla in the massacre in Holland Manners' wine cellar. With only him and Lilah left of Wolfram & Hart's Special Projects Team, their rivalry reaches an all-time high as the two start a power struggle for the vice-presidency of the team.

Darla manipulates Lindsey's feelings, which she never reciprocates, to gain his help after Angel sets her and Drusilla on fire. Darla stays at Lindsey's house, manipulating him to gain insight into Wolfram & Hart, and attempts to steal a mystical ring from the Senior Partners. Angel is at the meeting and beats her to the ring, and she is almost staked by guards but Lindsey saves her. After finding Darla with the ring, he figures out that Darla has slept with Angel.

Lindsey responds by brutally beating Angel with a sledgehammer, as well as hitting the vampire with his truck a few times, demanding to know what happened with Darla. Angel eventually gains the upper hand, smashes Lindsay's artificial hand, and steals his truck. Returning to his apartment, Lindsey finds that Darla had left town, taking all her clothes with her. Lindsey is left alone, beaten up both physically and emotionally.

Consequently, his work at the firm suffers, but he is still in a race with Lilah for the promotion. Hoping that his performance will pick up again with the return of his hand, Lindsey's superiors arrange for him to receive a mystical transplant, but the new hand acts up, writing "kill" whenever Lindsey doesn't concentrate. Fearing that the hand is evil, Lindsey goes to Caritas and sings for the Host, revealing that he used to be a regular customer and musician at Caritas until he lost his hand.

Lorne sets him and Angel on the path that will end with the two working together to discover a Wolfram & Hart facility that specializes in unwilling limb donors. Among them is the donor of Lindsey's hand, an old friend of his from his mailroom days. After figuring out that his hand isn't evil but rather suicidal, Lindsey pulls the plug on his friend and destroys the facility, while saving those that can still be saved. It is then that Lindsey decides to leave Wolfram & Hart permanently.

In a last confrontation between Angel and Lindsey, the two bury the hatchet, and Lindsey warns him of the games Wolfram & Hart is trying to play. Lindsey leaves Los Angeles and goes on a soul-searching trip, including, amongst other places, Nepal. He does not reappear for two seasons.

Season Five.
In Season Five of Angel, Lindsey finally returns to Los Angeles, when he learns that Angel has taken over the Los Angeles division of Wolfram & Hart. Although it seemed that he and Angel had buried the hatchet, Lindsey is unable to cope with the fact that Angel has gotten so easily the job that Lindsey had fought so hard for. His hatred for Angel returns in full force. Runic tattoos cover Lindsey's body, mystically hiding his presence from the Senior Partners. At some unrevealed point, he begins a relationship with Eve for whom he shows true affection.

Together, Lindsey and Eve manipulate events so that Spike, not Angel, proves (or at least appears to the Senior Partners) to be the ensouled vampire foretold in the Scrolls of Aberjian, the one who will have a crucial impact in the Apocalypse and fulfill the Shanshu Prophecy. Lindsey hopes that once the Senior Partners realize the folly of attempting to seduce Angel to their cause, that he will be stripped of his position at Wolfram & Hart, leaving a power vacuum which Lindsey could fill, gaining a measure of revenge on Angel.

The seeds of this plot are planted in the finale of Season Four of the series when Angel is given the amulet which Spike eventually uses to destroy the Hellmouth in Sunnydale. Deposited, incorporeal, in Wolfram & Hart and unable to leave the city limits, Spike gradually grows attached to the city and reconsiders his initial intention to seek out Buffy in Europe.

Lindsey then initiates the next stage of his plan, making Spike corporeal again via what is likely a spell sent in a package to Spike at Wolfram & Hart. He later seeks out Spike under the assumed identity of a drifter named Doyle, closely paralleling the initial encounters between Angel and the real Doyle. Claiming to receive visions from the Powers That Be, he gains Spike's cooperation and trust.

Lindsey and Eve contrive a situation where Spike saves Angel from a demonic parasite (placed on an unconscious Angel by Eve), which simultaneously disheartens Angel, galvanizes Spike, and adds weight and veracity to the claims made by 'Doyle'/Lindsey. Although the 'mind numbing' visions that Lindsey reports are non-existent, the events described (whether revealed to Lindsey through mundane or arcane means) are true, and for a time, Spike does appear the far more likely candidate to fulfill the Shanshu Prophecy.

However, when Cordelia seemingly returns to life, it throws a monkey wrench in Lindsey's plans. Lindsey sends Spike to kill her, not expecting him to succeed, but it "was worth a shot." Meanwhile, he infiltrates Wolfram & Hart. When informed by Eve that Spike had failed, Lindsey activates the Senior Partners' program meant to kill Angel if he turned against them. The plan is averted though as Spike, Cordelia, and Angel are able to uncover Lindsey's actions.

Angel and Lindsey face off in the chamber where the "contingency plan" is stored. The pair fight on a rising container, that holds the creature meant to kill Angel while Cordelia tries to stop the process. Lindsey displays the new abilities he has learned on his journeys, enabling him to keep up with Angel in a physical confrontation. Despite this, Angel finally defeats Lindsey, informing him that, no matter what he tries, he (Angel) will always beat the bad guys, and his comrades are able to dissolve the tattoos that protect Lindsey from the Senior Partners' wrath.

Lindsey is incarcerated in a hell dimension which emulates suburbia, complete with a wife and son. Time operates in a loop; each day he has his heart cut out by a demon hiding in the house's basement, reminiscent of the myth of Prometheus. He is eventually rescued by Angel, Spike, and Charles Gunn for information they need. They are only able to leave by the sacrifice of Gunn, who remains behind to take Lindsey's place.

Lindsey later reveals that his plot to kill Angel was also meant to make him a member of the Circle of the Black Thorn, the Senior Partners' instrument on this plane of existence, a secret society devoted to maintaining man's inhumanity to man in exchange for power. He notes that while Angel is sidetracked at Wolfram & Hart, the Apocalypse is already underway, and Angel and his team are becoming more and more corrupt by the day.

Lindsey and Angel ally once more in an effort to stop the Circle. The two agree to fight the upcoming battle together and at the end, resolve their differences, maybe even allowing Lindsey to take a powerful position at Wolfram & Hart as "the devil they know." At least that is the plan.

Lindsey destroys the Sahrvin demon clan with Lorne's assistance as planned. However, Angel believes that Lindsey can never be trusted and that he will never be a force for good. Consequently, Angel secretly instructs Lorne to assassinate Lindsey after the Sahrvin are defeated. Taking two bullets in the chest, as Lorne informs Lindsey that he will never be a part of the solution, a stunned Lindsey staggers back and slumps down by a wall, outraged and humiliated at being killed by (in his own words) a "flunky," rather than his nemesis, Angel.

Powers and abilities.
Thanks to an unrevealed mystical process, Lindsey became gifted with strength, speed, and endurance on a par with Angel as well as rune tattoos meant to hide him from all known surveillance methods other than the naked eye. He was also capable of transmuting a small blade into a sword and was an adept swordsman. In addition, Lindsey had telekinetic abilities. Until the removal of his strumming hand, he was also a competent guitarist.

Trivia.
 Lindsey is the only character besides Angel himself to appear in both the first and last episodes of Angel.
 Christian Kane originally auditioned for the role of Riley Finn on Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
 In "You're Welcome," Lindsey calls Angel a corporate puppet. Two episodes later, Angel does literally become a puppet in the episode "Smile Time.";
 Christian Kane lends his real singing voice to the episode "Dead End," causing a humorous and seemingly jealous reaction by Angel in Caritas.
 Though Christian Kane is a guitar player as well as a singer, it is his KANE band mate Steve Carlson that lends his hands for the performance shots during the Caritas scene in "Dead End.";
 The fleur-de-lis bracelet that Lindsey wears throughout his time on the show is actually a bracelet that Christian Kane wears to remind him of his mother who is from New Orleans.








 


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5295145" title="Bitter Work" nonfiltered="184" processed="184" dbindex="450184">


"Bitter Work" is an episode from the animated television series , which airs on Nickelodeon. It is the ninth episode of the second season of the series.

When Aang struggles with a block while trying to learn earthbending from Toph, he wonders if the problem is with him or his teacher.  Meanwhile, Sokka gets himself in a jam.

 Episode synopsis .

Aang awakes from his sleep, excited that he will finally begin his earthbending training with Toph. He enthusiastically asks her what they will do first, and Toph replies that they will simply learn how to move a rock.

Toph teaches Aang that earthbending requires a firm, steady stance. She demonstrates the technique by sending a rock into a wall.  Aang tries to emulate her, but he ends up hitting the rock with airbending and propels himself backwards.

Meanwhile, Iroh awakes to find his nephew Zuko watching over him. Zuko explains that Iroh was knocked unconscious after a surprise attack by Azula. They are in a partially destroyed home in the abandoned town presented the end of the last episode.

Zuko says that he has contemplated and realized that he will eventually encounter Azula again. He wants to learn more advanced firebending techniques so he can defeat her. To Zuko's surprise, Iroh agrees with him.

Meanwhile, Aang is trying to figure out why he could not move the rock, since he did the correct stance. He tries to find an alternate solution, but Toph explains that creative thinking is the problem. Earthbending requires a head-on approach. Aang then trains by doing several activities involving rocks. He starts to become successful with the many different training activities.

Meanwhile, Sokka (who is alone) is hiding in a tree. He spots a small, cute, but unidentifiable creature. Sokka comically states that even though it is cute, it is still made of meat. He then jumps down from the tree to attack it. However, he falls into a crack in the ground. Without his arms to use, he is stuck in the crack.

Meanwhile, Iroh explains how Firebenders can create lightning. Lightning requires peace of mind; it does not use aggression, unlike the other forms of firebending.


Iroh continues to explain how to create lightning. Positive energy and negative energy must be separated, creating an imbalance.  (Possibly the positively and negatively charged protons and electrons.) When the different energies recombine, tension is released, creating lightning. He successfully demonstrates how to make lightning. Then Zuko tries to create it. However, he just creates a fire blast and flies backwards., similar to the way Aang made an air blast while trying to earthbend.

Meanwhile, Toph decides that Aang will stop a rock. Toph puts a blindfold around Aang's eyes and rolls a boulder down a steep hill towards him.  Aang then flinches and jumps over the rock. Toph yells at Aang and calls him a wimp. Katara tries to console Aang by teaching him some more waterbending.

Zuko is still unsuccessful with lightning, creating another explosion. Iroh determines that Zuko's turmoil inside him is preventing him from creating lightning. Zuko still has some pride, even though he has been humbled.  Iroh decides to teach Zuko a move that he made up himself.

Meanwhile, Sokka is contemplating in the crack in the ground. He is then convinced that he will be a vegetarian if he can escape out of the crack.

In a marsh, Aang is moving a small mass of water with Katara. She tries to tell Aang to face the issue instead of avoiding it.  Aang, however, is unable to do that. Katara explains that Aang is working with his opposite element, earth. Katara then surprises Aang by throwing a reed at him. Aang is able to use water to cut the reed into two pieces before it reaches him. Katara congratulates Aang for having reflexes of a master Waterbender and Aang replies to her as Sifu (teacher) Katara.

Iroh gives further detail about the four nations to Zuko. The Fire Nation symbolizes power and desire, the Earth Kingdom symbolizes endurance and diversity, the Air Nomads symbolize freedom from worldly concerns, and the Water Tribes symbolize love and community, especially in the face of change. He explains that people can gain wisdom by understanding each other. Iroh learned his special move by understanding the Waterbenders.

Meanwhile, Toph taunts Aang about his submissiveness by abusing his staff. She walks away, but Katara arrives, saying that Sokka has not been found yet. Aang and Katara split up to search for Sokka.

Sokka is ready to give up meat and sarcasm in order to escape from the crack in the ground. This is proven to be hypocrisy when Aang finds him, and Sokka immediately asks Aang if he has any meat, and responds to Aang's inability to free him with sarcasm. Aang tries, but is unable to use airbending to free him. Sokka requests that he should get Toph to help, but Aang feels too scared to ask her for help. Consequently, Sokka remains in the hole.

The critter returns, and Aang identifies it as a saber-tooth moose-lion cub. Then the mother of the cub arrives, and she is furious.

Iroh begins to teach Zuko how to redirect lightning. Lightning goes through one arm, into the stomach, and out the other arm. They practice the hand motion to feel the pathway. When Zuko thinks he has mastered it, he demands that Uncle Iroh strike him with lightning. However, Iroh refuses because of the possibility of hurting his nephew. Zuko then leaves to "find his own lightning", as a storm is approaching.

The mother sabertooth moose-lion starts to attack Aang and Sokka. Aang tries to initially avoid it, but he eventually faces the mother head-on and sends her away. Toph, who was silently observing the conflict, congratulates Aang, but Aang demands that she give his staff back. Toph then says that Aang is thinking like an Earthbender. Aang successfully earthbends a rock. Toph then drags Sokka out of the hole.

Aang, Toph, and Sokka find Katara, who is relieved that Sokka has been found.

At the end of the episode, Zuko stands atop a mountain, yelling into the storm as the lightning crackles overhead. He dares the storm to strike him, in the hope of being able to practice what his uncle just taught him and, in some way, seek an end to his misery. But the storm, seeming to mock him, does not oblige. Zuko, who suddenly sheds a tear, falls to his knees crying out in anguish.

 Notes .
 Iroh's son, Lu Ten, is seen for the first time.
 Toph's delivery of, "Good Morning, Earthbending Student!" is crooned in the same way as Adrian Cronauer's "Good Morning, Vietnam!" ;
 It is confirmed that Iroh is able to create lightning. Iroh's explanation of how firebending creates lightning -- that is, by separation of positive and negative energy -- closely matches the scientific explanation for how lightning is actually formed, through separation of positive and negative charges.
 Aang Earthbends for the first time outside of the Avatar State, and has now Bended all four elements.
 Iroh mentions that in order to redirect lightning, it must be channeled from one arm through the stomach to the other arm.  Having it flow through the heart can be very dangerous, even fatal.  This is scientifically true, where electricity can be used to start or stop the heart during cardiac arrest.
 Iroh invented his redirection of lighting technique through his studies of the Waterbenders and their ability to deal with the flow of energy. His description of the "sea of chi" during his explanation of the technique is drawn directly from the Taoist practices of Chi Kung and Tai Chi, on which waterbending is based.
 When Zuko weeps at the end of the episode, his scarred eye does not shed any tears.  It is interesting to note that when his healthy eye opens all the way, the scarred one remains still, but when Zuko closes his right eye, the left shuts evenly with it.  This suggests that the scar has affected his tear duct and eyelid muscle, rather than just his skin.
 The diagram that Iroh draws into the ground presents each of the elements and arranges them in opposing forces.  Water is the opposite of Fire and Air is the opposite of Earth.  It is important to recognize that the bottom two elements, Air and Fire, are mainly identified with emotions.  The top two elements, Earth and Water, represent worldly attributes of intrepidity and community, respectively.
 Katara's and Toph's teaching styles are both defined in this episode as two of the four consequences of operant conditioning. Katara suggests to Toph that her use of positive reinforcement has helped Aang. Toph, however, uses negative punishment in order to change Aang's attitude.
 Aang addresses Toph and later Katara as "Sifu," which means "teacher" in Cantonese. It is most commonly used in martial arts schools.

 References .


 Screencaps for Bitter Work courtesy of Avatar Spirit.net;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="465326" title="Russian apartment bombings" nonfiltered="185" processed="185" dbindex="450185">

The Russian apartment bombings were a series of bombings in Russia that killed nearly 300 people and led the country into the Second Chechen War. They happened over a span of two weeks in 1999. The Russian authorities, directed by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, blamed the bombings on Chechen separatists, and, in response, ordered the invasion of Chechnya. However, former FSB officer Alexander Litvinenko, Johns Hopkins University and Hoover Institute scholar David Satter , and Russian lawmaker Sergei Yushenkov asserted that the bombings were in fact a "false flag" attack perpetrated by the FSB in order to legitimate the resumption of military activities in Chechnya and bring Vladimir Putin and FSB to power.

The bombings.
The first bombing, which did not target an apartment, occurred in Moscow, the Russian capital, on August 31, 1999. A bomb exploded in a mall, killing one person and leaving 40 others wounded. A note was left saying the bombing was a result of increasing Russian consumerism.

Buynaksk.
On September 4, 1999, a car bomb detonated outside an apartment building housing Russian soldiers in the city of Buynaksk, in the province of Dagestan. Sixty-four people were killed and dozens of others were wounded. Russia blamed separatists from Chechnya, and days later invaded the province of Dagestan.

Moscow, Pechatniki.
On September 8, 1999, 300 kg to 400 kg of explosives detonated on the ground floor of an apartment building in southeast Moscow. The nine-story building was destroyed, killing 94 people inside and wounded 150 others. A total of 108 apartments were destroyed during the bombing. A caller to a Russian news agency said the blast was a response to recent Russian bombing of Chechen and Dagestan villages in response to the invasion of Dagestan.

Moscow, Kashirskoye highway.
September 13, 1999, was supposed to be a day of mourning for the victims of the previous bomb attacks. But on that day, a large bomb exploded at an apartment on Kashirskoye Highway in southern Moscow. The eight-story building was flattened, littering the street with debris and throwing some concrete hundreds of yards away. In all, 118 people died and 200 were wounded.

It was at this time when Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin declared a war against the "illegal military units" in Chechnya. Though there was not much evidence pointing to Chechens, preparations were made by the Russian military forces to re-enter the province and to strip the Chechen government of its powers.

Volgodonsk.
The motive for the forceful solution was clinched when a truck bomb exploded September 16, 1999, outside a nine-story apartment complex in the southern Russian city of Volgodonsk, killing 17 people.

In response, Russia launched air strikes on Chechen rebel positions, oil refineries, and other buildings inside that province. By the end of September it was clear another war over Chechnya was underway, and by October Russian troops had entered the province. The attacks would not be the last in Russia or Chechnya.

Ryazan incident.

 On the evening of September 22, 1999, an alert resident of an apartment building in the town of Ryazan noticed strangers moving heavy sugar sacks into the basement from a car.  Militia (the local police) were called to the site and all residents were evacuated.  The first test of the powder from the sacks showed the presence of an explosive.  All roads from the town were brought under heavy surveillance but no leads were found.  A telephone service employee tapped into long-distance phone conversations managed to detect a conversation in which an out-of-town person suggested to take care and to watch for patrols.  That person's number was found to belong to an FSB office in Moscow.



Federalnaya Sluzhba Bezopasnosti declared that the incident was a training exercise forty-eight hours later.  The original chemical test was declared inaccurate due to contamination of the analysis apparatus from a previous test.  The public inquiry committee could not come to a complete conclusion on this and other incidents due to incoherent answers from federal bodies.  The General Prosecutor's office has closed the criminal investigation of the Ryazan incident in April 2000.

Official investigation.
According to the official investigation , the apartment bombings were planned and organized by Amir Khattab and Abu Umar, Arab militants fighting in Chechnya on the side of Chechen insurgents, both of whom were later killed. The planning was carried out in Khattab's guerilla camps in Chechnya, "Caucasus" in Shatoy and "Taliban" in Avtury.

This particular operation was led by an ethnic Karachay Achemez Gochiyayev. The explosives were prepared in Urus-Martan, Chechnya at the fertilizer factory by mixing hexogen, TNT, aluminium powder and nitre with sugar.  From there they have been sent to a food storage facility in Kislovodsk which was managed by an uncle of one of the terrorists, Yusuf Krymshakhalov. Another conspirator, Ruslan Magayayev, had leased a KamAZ truck which the sacks were stored in for two months.  After everything was planned, the participants were organized into several groups which transported the explosives to different cities. Most of the people participating were not ethnic Chechens.

According to official version, the following people either delivered explosives, stored them, or harbored other suspects:

Moscow bombings.
 Achemez Gochiyayev (has not been arrested);
 Denis Saitakov (killed in Chechnya);
 Khakim Abayev (killed by FSB special forces in May 2004 in Ingushetia);
 Ravil Akhmyarov (killed in Chechnya);
 Yusuf Krymshakhalov (arrested in Georgia, extradited to Russia and sentenced to life imprisonment in January 2004);

Volgodonsk bombing.
 Timur Batchayev (killed in Georgia in the clash with police during which Krymshakhalov was arrested);
 Zaur Batchayev (killed in Chechnya);
 Adam Dekkushev (arrested in Georgia, threw a grenade at police during the arrest, extradited to Russia and sentenced to life imprisonment in January 2004);

Buinaksk bombing.
 Isa Zainutdinov (sentenced to life imprisonment in March 2001);
 Alisultan Salikhov (sentenced to life imprisonment in March 2001);
 Magomed Salikhov (arrested in Azerbaijan in November 2004, extradited to Russia, found not guilty on the charge of terrorism by the jury on January 24, 2006; found guilty on other related charges such as participating in an illegal armed force and illegal crossing of the national border, the Supreme Court has found some procedural issues with that decision and decided that a retrial was necessary, but on November 13, 2006 he was again found not guilty, this time on all charges, including the ones he was found guilty of in the first trial);
 Ziyavutdin Ziyavutdinov (arrested in Kazakhstan, extradited to Russia, sentenced to 24 years in April 2002);
 Abdulkadyr Abdulkadyrov (sentenced to 9 years in March 2001);
 Magomed Magomedov (sentenced to 9 years in March 2001);
 Zainutdin Zainutdinov (sentenced to 3 years in March 2001 and immediately released under amnesty);
 Makhach Abdulsamedov (sentenced to 3 years in March 2001 and immediately released under amnesty).

Attempts at independent investigation.

The Russian Duma rejected two motions for parliamentary investigation of the Ryazan incident. Duma, on a pro-Kremlin party block vote, voted to seal all materials related to Ryazan incident for the next 75 years and forbade an investigation of what really happened. An independent public commission to investigate the bombings chaired by Duma deputy Sergei Kovalev was rendered ineffective because of government refusal to respond to its inquiries.  Two key members of the Kovalev Commission, Sergei Yushenkov and Yuri Shchekochikhin, both Duma members, have since died in apparent assassinations in April 2003 and July 2003 respectively.  The Commission's lawyer Mikhail Trepashkin has been arrested in October 2003 to become one of the better-known political prisoners in Russia.  Another member of the commission, Otto Lacis, was brutally beaten in November 2003 and two years later on 3rd of November 2005 dies in the hospital after a car accident.

Theory of FSB involvement.
The Ryazan incident on September 22, 1999 prompted the initial speculation in the Western press that the Moscow bombings were organized by the FSB, the Russian domestic intelligence service. 

The FSB were caught by local police and citizens in the city of Ryazan planting a bomb with a detonator in the basement of an apartment building at the address of 14/16 Novosyelov on the night of September 22, 1999. Explosives experts arriving at the scene found that the bomb tested positive for hexogen (i.e., RDX). On September 24, 1999, Nikolai Patrushev, the head of the FSB, said on the NTV channel that the bomb in the basement of the apartment had been a dummy and that the FSB had been conducting a test. The FSB claimed that the gas analyzer that detected hexogen had malfunctioned, and that the substance in the dummy bomb was sugar.

Yet, Yuri Tkachenko, the explosives expert who defused the bomb insisted that it was real. Tkachenko said that the explosives, including a timer, power source, and detonator were genuine military equipment and obviously prepared by a professional. He also said that the gas analyzer that tested the vapors coming from the sacks unmistakably indicated the presence of hexogen. Tkachenko said that it was out of the question that the analyzer could have malfunctioned, as the gas analyzer was of world class quality, costing $20,000 and was maintained by a specialist who worked according to a strict schedule, checking the analyzer after each use and making frequent prophylactic checks. Tkachenko pointed out that meticulous care in the handling of the gas analyzer was a necessity because the lives of the bomb squad's experts depended on the reliability of their equipment.  The police officers who answered the original call and discovered the bomb also insisted that the incident was not an exercise and that it was obvious from its appearance that the substance in the bomb was not sugar.

Alexander Litvinenko, a former FSB agent, alleged that agents from the FSB co-ordinated the apartment block bombings. On 29 December 2003 Russian authorities confiscated over 5000 copies of the book en route to Moscow from the publisher in Latvia.. Alexander Litvinenko was murdered in London in November 2006.

Boris Berezovsky supported a documentary film "FSB blows up Russia" ("An assault on Russia"?), financing 25% of the costs. The film accused Russian special services of organising the explosions in Volgodonsk and Moscow. According to research carried out by two French journalists, Jean-Charles Deniau and Charles Gazelle, the explosions were carried out by FSB to provide justification for the continuance of the Chechen War, which in turn helped Putin beat the communists in the presidential election of 2000. There is some doubt concerning Berezovsky's impartiality in this case, as he allegedly had extensive business dealings with Chechen rebels. However, nearly 40% of the Russians gave credence to Berezovsky's accusations at the time

In April 2002 on a visit to Washington, Duma member Sergei Yushenkov pointed to a mysterious remark by the Duma speaker Gennady Seleznev, from which it  appeared that Seleznev had known about one of the explosions three days before the fact. In fact, Seleznyov was referring to an unrelated explosion which indeed happened in Volgodonsk three days earlier.

An independent documentary 'Nedoverie" (Disbelief) about the bombing controversy by Russian director Andrei Nekrasov was premiered at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival. The film chronicles the story of Tatyana and Alyona Morozova, the two Russian-American sisters, who had lost their mother in the attack, and decided to find out who did it.

On May 20, 2004, an article in the Los Angeles Times  described the conviction on an unrelated state secret charge of Mikhail Trepashkin, appointed by a public committee, set up by four members of the Russian parliament, to investigate the  bombings. Trepashkin was arrested shortly before he was to make his findings public. The article states that FSB agent Vladimir Romanovich was identified by several witnesses as the man who rented the basement of one of the bombed buildings; Romanovich subsequently died in a car crash in Cyprus.  Trepashkin's wife declared that his conviction was punishment for publicizing uncomfortable truths about the bombing. 

On 18 January 2003 Yuri Felshtinsky provided Novaya Gazeta with a video recording and its transcript.  computer translation  The video dated 20 August 2002 contained an interview with somebody claimed to be Gochiyayev.  The authors edited out the names of an FSB agent and another person from the interviewee's story.  The authors asked for money in exchange for the missing details.

In February 2005 Yuri Felshtinsky received an audio cassette and a written statement from an unnamed mediator without pay.  The statement made by Gochiyayev or orchestrated by his kidnappers said that he was just an unknowing participant in a plot organized by an undercover FSB agent, his former acquaintance Ramazan Dyshekov. computer translation  This story contradicted the name of the FSB agent Vladimir Romanovich disclosed by Trepashkin one day before his arrest.  computer translation

Among Western scholars, the theory of FSB involvement in the bombings has been championed by David Satter, the former Financial Times correspondent in Moscow, in his book Darkness at Dawn: the Rise of the Russian Criminal State ISBN 0-300-09892-8, published by  Yale University Press.

Chronology of events.
 July 1998: Vladimir Putin was appointed Director of the FSB;
 September 1998: Yevgeny Primakov, a KGB veteran, becomes Prime Minister of Russia;
 17 November 1998: Five FSB officers including Alexander Litvinenko accuse the FSB leadership of ordering assassination of Boris Berezovsky and Mikhail Trepashkin.
 20 November 1998: Galina Starovoitova, a proponent of lustration, was assassinated ;
 May 12 1999: Sergei Stepashin, a former FSB Director, becomes Prime Minister of Russia;
 August 8 1999: Shamil Basayev begins incursion to Dagestan, which was regarded by Anna Politkovskaya as a provocation intitiated from Moscow ;
 August 9 1999: Vladimir Putin, a former FSB Director, becomes Prime Minister of Russia;
 September 4 1999: Bombing in Buynaksk, 64 people killed, 133 are injured.
 September 9 1999: Bombing in Moscow, Pechatniki, 94 people are killed, 249 are injured.
 September 13 1999: Bombing in Moscow, Kashirskoye highway, 118 are killed.
 September 16 1999: Bombing in Volgodonsk, 18 are killed, 288 injured.
 September 22 1999: FSB agents were caught while planting the bomb in Ryazan. The sequence of bombings has stopped.
 September 23 1999: 24 Russian governors demands to transfer all state powers to Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, according to Sergei Yushenkov ;
 September 24 1999: Vladimir Putin begins Second Chechen War;
 December 31 1999: President Boris Yeltsin resigns. Putin is appointed as acting President. ;
 March 26 2000: Vladimir Putin wins presidential elections.

 References .


 See also .
Dagestan War;
Aleksander Litvinenko;
FSB (Russia);
Maxim Lazovsky;

External links.
 "Poisoned spy defiant in final interview before his death". Richard Beeston, Diplomatic Editor, The Times, November 23, 2006.
 "The Shadow of Ryazan: Who Was Behind the Strange Russian Apartment Bombings in September 1999?", David Satter, The Hudson Institute, April 19, 2002.
 "Fear of Doing the Boss a Disservice", Moscow Times, April 11, 2002, p. 8.
 "'Gospodin Geksogen' ('Mr. Hexogen')", Dr. Alexandr Nemets and Dr. Thomas Torda, NewsMax.com, July 19, 2002.
 "'Mr. Hexogen' (Continued)", Dr. Alexandr Nemets and Dr. Thomas Torda, NewsMax.com, July 23, 2002.
 JF: U.S. Grants Alyona Morozova Political Asylum.
 The blasts which shook Russia, August 10, 2000, BBC;
 Russia apartment bombs: Two jailed, January 12, 2004, CNN.
 "Assassination of Russia"   "                   "   A 52-minute documentary (in Russian), using footage originally shot by NTV is available for downloading from this site. The film examines Russian apartment bombings and focuses on the foiled bombing in Ryazan. It can be viewed in English online via an Indymedia upload or ordered at the Terror 99 web site. The script in English is available on Yuri Felshtinsky's website.
 Timeline: Terrorism in Russia, February 6, 2004, CNN;
 The Terror of 9/99: Fact Sheet;
 The request of the Chairman of the public inquiry committee Kovalyov to the Director of FSB , translation, April 8, 2002.
 The answer of the Secretary of the Director of FSB to the Kovalyov's request , translation, May 8, 2002.
 The answer of the General Prosecutor office to the request of the Duma member Kulikov , translation, Spring, 2002.
 Journalist investigation by Novaya Gazeta ; translation.
 'Disbelief' by Andrei Nekrasov   documentary about Moscow Apartment Bombings; Google Video , .
The Operation "Successor" by Vladimir Pribylovsky and Yuriy Felshtinsky (in Russian).











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3777776" title="Reistingen Abbey" nonfiltered="186" processed="186" dbindex="450186">
Reistingen Abbey (Kloster Reistingen) was a house of Augustinian canonesses, previously a Benedictine monastery, at Ziertheim in Bavaria.

History.
The monastery was founded at some time before 1250 by the Counts of Dillingen. In the 14th century it was dedicated to Saint Peter; the present church is dedicated to Saints Peter and Vitus. Until at least the middle of the 13th century it was a Benedictine monastery, but changed to a house of Augustinian canonesses in either the 13th or 14th century. In 1450 Pope Nicholas V abolished the foundation and diverted the income to the use of the Bishop of Augsburg, in whose diocese it was. In 1465 the bishop used part of the income to buy liturgical books for the court chapel at Dillingen. The monastic and foundation church became the parish church.

External links.
Kl\F6ster in Bayern;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5477576" title="Kim Dong-Hyun" nonfiltered="187" processed="187" dbindex="450187">
Kim Dong-Hyun is a Korean Football player who plays for SC Braga and Korea. Before he moved to Braga, he played for one of the Asian preimier club, Suwon Samsung Bluewings and won the championship title.

In the summer of 2006, he loaned to Russian side Rubin Kazan.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1732458" title="Quang Tri Province" nonfiltered="188" processed="188" dbindex="450188">


Quang Tri (in Vietnamese Qu ng Tr  ) is a province in the North Central Coast of Vietnam, next to the former capital of Hu . This is where the southernmost Chinese commandery of Rinan was centred during the Later Han dynasty (25-220 CE).

This province was the northernmost province of the former Republic of Vietnam (South Vietnam) which ceased to exist after the end of the Vietnam War.

Its capital is Dong Ha.  Another notable city is Quang Tri.  The most notable achievement of the North Vietnamese offensive in 1972 was capturing Quang Tri.

In 2000, Clear Path International (CPI) was still working to remove unexploded ordnance left by the United States in Quang Tri Province. This was at the time the largest unexploded ordnance removal effort by an NGO in Vietnam's history.  CPI continues to operate in Quang Tri, providing victim assistance to those injured by landmines and unexploded ordnance (UXO).

In 2006, Mines Advisory Group (MAG) continues to operate in Quang Tri (and neighbouring Quang Binh) province, providing the only civilian staffed demining and UXO clearance operations in Vietnam.



 Non Governmental Organizations .
 Clear Path International;

References.














ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1043311" title="Sandy Bay, Tasmania" nonfiltered="189" processed="189" dbindex="450189">

Sandy Bay is a suburb of the city of Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.  It is immediately south of the CBD.  It is in the local government area of City of Hobart.

The area is generally known as one of the city's more prestigious suburbs, with many large and extravagant homes and apartment blocks.  It adjoins the waterfront Salamanca area as well as nearby prestige suburb of Battery Point.  However, it is also the site of the Hobart campus of the University of Tasmania, Fahan School and The Hutchins School, and as a result has a large student population.

Sandy Bay is accessible via Sandy Bay Road, which runs from Davey Street in the city all the way to the Kingborough municipal boundary at Taroona when it becomes the Channel Highway.  Before the construction of the Southern Outlet, the road was the primary route to and from Kingston.  It is also accessible via Regent Street, which bypasses the shopping district and goes direct to the University.

Australia's first legal casino, Wrest Point Hotel Casino, was opened in 1973 at the site of the former Wrest Point Riviera hotel.

The part of Sandy Bay located at the far southern end is generally known as Lower Sandy Bay.

Sandy Bay is also home to many beaches on the Derwent River, including Nutgrove Beach.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3389471" title="Philippine general election, 1961" nonfiltered="190" processed="190" dbindex="450190">

Presidential, legislative and local elections were held on November 14, 1961 in the Philippines. Incumbent President Carlos P. Garcia lost his opportunity for a second full term as President of the Philippines to Vice President President Diosdado Macapagal. His running mate, Senator Sergio Osme\F1a, Jr. lost to Senator Emmanuel Pelaez. Six candidates ran for president, however four of those were nuisance candidates. This was the only election in Philippine electoral history where the vice president defeated the incumbent president.

Results.

For president.


For vice-president.



External links.
 The Philippine Presidency Project;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8030521" title="Kyle Wealleans" nonfiltered="191" processed="191" dbindex="450191">
Kyle Andrew Wealleans (b. 2 March, 1969) in Matamata. He was a New Zealand who played 43 first-class matches for Northern Districts in his career.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3938907" title="Mark Davies (cricketer)" nonfiltered="192" processed="192" dbindex="450192">
Anthony Mark Davies (born 4 October 1980 in Stockton-on-Tees, Co Durham, England) is an English cricket player who has played for the cricket teams of Durham.

External link.
Cricket Online Profile;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="220460" title="Wax paper" nonfiltered="194" processed="193" dbindex="450194">
Wax paper (also called waxed paper) is a kind of paper that is made moisture proof through the application of wax.


The paper was invented in 1872 by Thomas Edison when he was 25 years old. It is commonly used in cooking (for non-stick properties) and wrapping food for storage (keeps water out or in). It is also used in arts and crafts.

Similar to 'baking paper' and 'greaseproof paper'.

 Food Preparation .

Oven: While wax paper should never be exposed to direct heat (paper is flammable), it can and is used safely in numerous baking applications. In baking quick breads or cakes, a pan can be lined with wax paper in such a way that the batter completely covers the surface of the wax paper lining. This will prevent the bread or cake from sticking to the pan in the lined area, aiding in removal of the baked product.

Microwave: Wax paper can function as a splatter cover in microwave cooking. Because the paper is mostly unaffected by microwaves, it will not heat to the point of combustion under normal usage. This makes wax paper more functional than cling wrap which will melt at lower temperatures, or aluminum foil (or tin foil) which will block microwaves, preventing the covered foodstuff from heating.

 Other Uses .
The paper is also used in the manufacture of some less expensive models of the musical instrument the kazoo. One can make a simple kazoo by combining a small piece of wax paper and a comb, then blowing over it.

Another use of wax paper is to apply wax to objects. By rubbing the wax paper on an object the wax will rub off the paper and onto the object. This is useful for adding a slight polish or to reduce friction.

Newer projects with wax paper include three dimensional forms which are very suitable for such objects as disposable cups. Developed by Sam Hecht from Industrial Facility .

See also.
Tetra Pak;
Cooking Parchment;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="613276" title="List of state leaders in 1752" nonfiltered="195" processed="194" dbindex="450195">
List of state leaders in 1751 - Events of 1752 - List of state leaders in 1753 - State leaders by year 
-----

Africa.
 Ashanti Confederacy - Kusi Obodom, Asantehene (1750-1764);
 Bunyoro - Duhaga, Omukama of Bunyoro (1731-c.1782);
 Dahomey - Tegbesu, King of Dahomey (1732-1774);
 Ethiopia - Iyasu II, Emperor of Ethiopia (1730-1755);
 Nkore - Macwa, Omugabe of Nkole (c.1727-c.1755);
Zulu - Ndaba kaMageba, King of the Zulu (1745-1763);

Asia.

 Afghanistan - Ahmad Shah, King of Afghanistan (1747-1772);
 China (Qing Dynasty) - Qianlong, Emperor of China (1735-1796);
 Japan;
Monarch - Momozono, Emperor of Japan (1747-1762);
Shogun (Tokugawa) - Tokugawa Ieshige, Shogun of Japan (1745-1760);
Ry ky  Kingdom - ;
Monarch - Sh  Boku, King of Ry ky  (1752-1795);
Regent - Sai On, Kokushi (1751-1752);
Korea (Joseon Dynasty) - Yeongjo, King of Joseon (1724-1776);

Europe.
 Andorra - Coprinces:
 Sebasti\E0 Josep de Victoria de Empar\E1n y de Loyola, Bishop of Urgell (1747-1756);
 Louis XV, King of France (1715-1774);
 Denmark - ;
 Monarch - Frederick V, King of Denmark (1746-1766);
 Prime Minister - Johann Hartwig Ernst, Count von Bernstorff, Minister of State of Denmark (1751-1770);
 France - Louis XV, King of France (1715-1774);
 Great Britain;
Monarch - George II, King of Great Britain (1727-1760);
Prime Minister - Henry Pelham, Prime Minister of Great Britain (1743-1754);
 Holy Roman Empire - Franz I, Holy Roman Emperor (1745-1765);
 Hungary - Maria Theresa, Queen of Hungary (1740-1780);
 Ireland - George II, King of Ireland (1727-1760);
 Naples - Carlo VII Sebastiani, King of Naples (1735-1759);
 Norway - Frederik V, King of Norway (1746-1766);
 Poland - Augustus III, King of Poland (1733-1763);
 Portugal - ;
 Monarch - Joseph I, King of Portugal (1750-1777);
 Prime Minister - Sebasti\E3o Jos\E9 de Carvalho e Melo, Marquis de Pombal (1750-1777);
 Prussia - Friedrich II, King of Prussia (1740-1786);
Russia - Elizabeth Petrovna, Tsaritsa of Russia (1741-1762);
 Sardinia - Carlo Emanuele III, King of Sardinia (1730-1773);
 Sicily - Carlo IV Sebastiani, King of Sicily (1735-1759);
 Spain - Fernando VI, King of Spain (1746-1759);
 Sweden - Age of Liberty;
Monarch - Adolf Frederik, King of Sweden (1751-1771);
Majority leader - Henning Gyllenborg, Lantmarskalk of the Riksdag of the Estates (1751-1752);
 United Provinces - ;
Estates of Friesland, Groningen (province), Guelders, Holland, Overijssel, Utrecht, Zeeland (1581-1795);
Stadtholder - William V, Prince of Orange, Stadtholder of Friesland, Groningen (province), Guelders, Holland, Overijssel, Utrecht, Zeeland (1751-1795);
Holland - Grand Pensionary Pieter Steyn of Holland (1749-1772);

Middle East and North Africa.
Algeria - Mohammed Ben Bekir, Dey of Algiers (1748-1754);
 Morocco - Abdallah IV, Sultan of Morocco (1745-1757);
 Ottoman Empire ;
Monarch - Mahmud I, Sultan of the Ottoman Empire (1730-1754);
Grand Vizier - ;
 Divitdar Mehmed Pasha, Ottoman Grand Vizier (1750-1752);
 K\F6se Bahir Mustafa Pasha, Ottoman Grand Vizier (1752-1755);
 Tunis - Ali, Bey of Tunis (1735-1756);





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="275858" title="Horse's Neck" nonfiltered="196" processed="195" dbindex="450196">

A Horse's Neck is an IBA Official Cocktail. It is made with Brandy (or sometimes rye whisky or bourbon) and ginger ale, with a long spiral of lemon peel draped over the edge of an old fashioned or highball glass.

Origins.
Dating back to the 1890's, it was a non-alcoholic mixture of ginger ale, ice and lemon peel. By the 1910's, Brandy, sometimes Bourbon would be added for a 'Horse's Neck with a Kick' or '~ Stiff'. Eventually, the non-alcoholic version became phased out.

See also.
List of cocktails;
IBA Official Cocktail;

References.
 Robert Cross, The Classic 1000 Cocktails (1996), ISBN 0-572-02161-5;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2383859" title="James Walker (footballer)" nonfiltered="197" processed="196" dbindex="450197">
For the Australian rules footballer, see James Walker (Australian rules footballer).;


James Barry Walker (born July 9, 1973 in Sutton-in-Ashfield) is a professional English association football player. Walker, a goalkeeper, plays for Premiership outfit, West Ham United, wearing squad number 23.

The London club acquired his services from Walsall on a Bosman free transfer in the summer of 2004. Walker is a cult hero at the Bescot Stadium, having made over 400 appearances for the Midlands club. He was awarded a testimonial in the summer of 2003. Whilst at Walsall he was a key player in three promotion seasons, and won their Player of the Season award twice. He is best known for his agility and ability to make world-class saves which defy his diminutive goalkeeper's frame of 5'11".

Indeed, Walker's popularity proved such that an autobiography was commissioned to coincide with his testimonial season. Ghosted by Walsall F.C. programme editor, Andrew Poole, it proved to be a relative success with fans of Walsall and of West Ham United

He is nicknamed "Wacka" because of the distance of his goal kicks, a variation on his life-long family nickname of "Wack".

Walker was the second choice goalkeeper at Upton Park, but gained a first team place within the year of his arrival.  A serious injury in the Play-off final of 2005 saw him miss the majority of the 2005/06 season.  Walker made a quick return to fitness, and made three appearances in the 2005-06 seasons, making his Premiership debut at the age of 32. He also picked up a loser's medal in the FA Cup Final as an unused substitute. The presence of Roy Carroll and Robert Green as goalkeepers at West Ham means that Walker's first-team chances are currently limited, though he remains very popular at Upton Park.

He is married and has one son.

External links.
 ;















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="16736" title="Kurt G\F6del" nonfiltered="198" processed="197" dbindex="450198">


Kurt G\F6del (IPA: ) (April 28, 1906 Brno, then Austria-Hungary, now Czech Republic   January 14, 1978 Princeton, New Jersey) was an Austrian logician, mathematician, and philosopher of mathematics.

One of the most significant logicians of all time, G\F6del's work has had immense impact upon scientific and philosophical thinking in the 20th century, a time when many, such as Bertrand Russell, A. N. Whitehead and David Hilbert, were attempting to use logic and set theory to understand the foundations of mathematics.

G\F6del is best known for his two incompleteness theorems, published in 1931 when he was 25 years of age, and only one year after finishing his doctorate at the University of Vienna. The more famous incompleteness theorem states that for any self-consistent recursive axiomatic system powerful enough to describe the arithmetic of the natural numbers (Peano arithmetic), there are true propositions about the naturals that cannot be proved from the axioms. To prove this theorem, G\F6del developed a technique now known as G\F6del numbering, which codes formal expressions as natural numbers.

He also showed that the continuum hypothesis cannot be disproved from the accepted axioms of set theory, if those axioms are consistent. He made important contributions to proof theory by clarifying the connections between classical logic, intuitionistic logic, and modal logic.

 Life .
 Childhood .
Kurt Friedrich G\F6del was born April 28, 1906, in Brno (German: Br\FCnn), Moravia, Austria-Hungary (now the Czech Republic) into the ethnic German family of Rudolf G\F6del, the manager of a textile factory, and Marianne G\F6del (born Handschuh). At the time of his birth the town had a slight German-speaking majority and this was the language of his parents. 

He automatically became a Czechoslovak citizen at age 12 when the Austro-Hungarian empire broke up at the end of World War I. He later told his biographer John D. Dawson that he felt like an "exiled Austrian in Czechoslovakia" ("ein \F6sterreichischer Verbannter in Tschechoslowakien") during this time. He was never able to speak Czech and refused to learn it at school. He became an Austrian citizen by choice at age 23. When Nazi Germany annexed Austria, G\F6del automatically became a German citizen at age 32. After World War II, at the age of 42, he became a naturalized American citizen.

In his family, young Kurt was known as Der Herr Warum ("Mr. Why") because of his insatiable curiosity.
According to his brother Rudolf, at the age of six or seven Kurt suffered from rheumatic fever; he completely recovered, but for the rest of his life he remained convinced that his heart had suffered permanent damage.

He attended German language primary and secondary school in Brno and completed them with honors in 1923. Although Kurt had first excelled in languages, he later became more interested in history and mathematics. His interest in mathematics increased when in 1920 his older brother Rudolf (born 1902) left for Vienna to go to medical school at the University of Vienna (UV). During his teens, Kurt studied Gabelsberger shorthand, Goethe's Theory of Colours and criticisms of Isaac Newton, and the writings of Immanuel Kant.

 Studying in Vienna .
At the age of 18, Kurt joined his brother Rudolf in Vienna and entered the UV. By that time he had already mastered university-level mathematics. Although initially intending to study theoretical physics, Kurt also attended courses on mathematics and philosophy. During this time, he adopted ideas of mathematical realism.  He read Kant's Metaphysische Anfangsgr\FCnde der Naturwissenschaft, and participated in the Vienna Circle with Moritz Schlick, Hans Hahn, and Rudolf Carnap. Kurt then studied number theory, but when he took part in a seminar run by Moritz Schlick which studied Bertrand Russell's book Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy, Kurt became interested in mathematical logic.

Attending a lecture by David Hilbert in Bologna on completeness and consistency of mathematical systems may have set G\F6del's life course. 
In 1928, Hilbert and Wilhelm Ackermann published Grundz\FCge der theoretischen Logik (Principles of Theoretical Logic), an introduction to first-order logic in which the problem of completeness was posed: Are the axioms of a formal system sufficient to derive every statement that is true in all models of the system?
This was the topic chosen by G\F6del for his doctorate work.
In 1929, at the age of 23, he completed his doctoral dissertation under Hans Hahn's supervision. In it, G\F6del established the completeness of the first-order predicate calculus (this result is known as G\F6del's completeness theorem). He was awarded the doctorate in 1930. His thesis, along with some additional work, was published by the Vienna Academy of Science.

 Working in Vienna .
In 1931, G\F6del published his famous incompleteness theorems in "\DCber formal unentscheidbare S\E4tze der Principia Mathematica und verwandter Systeme." In that article, he proved that for any computable axiomatic system that is powerful enough to describe the arithmetic of the natural numbers (e.g. the Peano axioms or ZFC), then:
 The system cannot be both consistent and complete. (This is generally known as the incompleteness theorem.);
 The consistency of the axioms cannot be proved within the system.  ;
These theorems ended a half-century of attempts, beginning with the work of Frege and culminating in Principia Mathematica and  Hilbert's formalism, to find a set of axioms sufficient for all mathematics. The incompleteness theorems also imply that not all mathematical questions are computable.

In hindsight, the basic idea at the heart of the incompleteness theorem is rather simple. G\F6del essentially constructed a formula that claims that it is unprovable in a given formal system. If it were provable, it would be false, which contradicts the fact that provable statements are always true.
Thus there will always be at least one true but unprovable statement.
That is, for any humanly constructible set of axioms for arithmetic, there is a formula which obtains in arithmetic, but which is not provable in that system.
To make this precise, however, G\F6del needed to solve several technical issues, such as encoding statements, proofs, and the very concept of provability into the natural numbers. He did this using a process known as G\F6del numbering.

G\F6del earned his habilitation at the UV in 1932, and in 1933 he became a Privatdozent (unpaid lecturer) there. Hitler's 1933 ascension in Germany had little effect on G\F6del in Vienna, as he took little interest in politics. He was, however, much affected by the 1936 murder of Moritz Schlick (whose seminar had aroused G\F6del's interest in logic) by a deranged student, which resulted in G\F6del's first nervous breakdown.

 Visits to the USA .
In 1933, G\F6del first traveled to the USA, where he met Albert Einstein who became a good friend. He delivered an address to the annual meeting of the American Mathematical Society. During this year, G\F6del also developed the ideas of computability and recursive functions to the point where he delivered a lecture on general recursive functions and the concept of truth. This work was developed in number theory, using G\F6del numbering.

In 1934 G\F6del gave a series of lectures at the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) in Princeton, New Jersey, entitled On undecidable propositions of formal mathematical systems. Stephen Kleene, who had just completed his Ph.D. at Princeton, took notes of these lectures which have been subsequently published.

G\F6del would visit the IAS again in the autumn of 1935. The traveling and the hard work had exhausted him and the next year he had to recover from a depression. He returned to teaching in 1937. During this time, he worked on the proof of consistency of the axiom of choice and of the continuum hypothesis; he would go on to show that these hypotheses cannot be disproved from the common system of axioms of set theory.

He married Adele Nimbursky (n\E9e Porkert), whom he had known for over 10 years, on September 20, 1938.
Their relationship had been opposed by his parents on the grounds that she was a divorced dancer, six years older than he.
They had no children.

Subsequently, he left for another visit to the USA, spending the autumn of 1938 at the IAS and the spring of 1939 at the University of Notre Dame.

 Princeton .
After the Anschluss in 1938, Austria had become a part of Nazi Germany.
Germany abolished the title of Privatdozent, so G\F6del had to apply for a different position under the new order; his former association with Jewish members of the Vienna Circle, especially with Hahn, weighed against him.
His predicament precipitated when he was found fit for military service and was now at risk of being conscripted into the German army.
World War II started in September 1939.
In January 1940, G\F6del and his wife left Europe.  Due to the difficulty of an Atlantic crossing, they took the trans-Siberian railway and passed through Japan en route to the U.S.. Arriving in San Francisco, California on March 4, 1940, they crossed the U.S. by train so that G\F6del could take up a position at the IAS in Princeton, New Jersey.

G\F6del very quickly resumed his mathematical work. In 1940, he published his work Consistency of the axiom of choice and of the generalized continuum-hypothesis with the axioms of set theory which is a classic of modern mathematics. In that work he introduced the constructible universe, a model of set theory in which the only sets which exist are those that can be constructed from simpler sets. G\F6del showed that both the axiom of choice (AC) and the generalized continuum hypothesis (GCH) are true in the constructible universe, and therefore must be consistent with the Zermelo-Frankel axioms for set theory (ZF). Paul Cohen later constructed a model of ZF in which AC and GCH are false; together these proofs mean that AC and GCH are independent of the ZF axioms for set theory. 

During his many years at the Institute, G\F6del's interests turned to philosophy and physics. He studied and admired the works of Gottfried Leibniz, but came around to the (unsupported) belief that most of Leibniz's works had been suppressed.  To a lesser extent he studied Kant and Edmund Husserl. In the early 1970s, G\F6del circulated among his friends an elaboration of Leibniz's ontological proof of God's existence. This is now known as G\F6del's ontological proof.

In the late 1940s, G\F6del demonstrated the existence of paradoxical solutions to Albert Einstein's field equations in general relativity. These "rotating universes" would allow time travel and caused Einstein to have doubts about his own theory. 

G\F6del became a permanent member of the IAS in 1946. Around this time he stopped publishing, though he continued to work.  He became a full professor at the Institute in 1953 and an emeritus professor in 1976. 

G\F6del was awarded (with Julian Schwinger) the first Albert Einstein Award, in 1951, and was also awarded the National Medal of Science, in 1974.

Psychological disorder.
G\F6del was shy, withdrawn and eccentric. He would wear warm, winter clothing in the middle of summer. In the middle of winter, he would leave all of the windows open in his home because he believed that conspirators were trying to assassinate him with poison gas. He was a somewhat sickly man and was prescribed specific diets and medical regimens by doctors, but G\F6del often ignored their advice, or even would do the opposite of what his prescription indicated. This caused him to suffer further illness.
In the 1940s he suffered from a bleeding ulcer, but his distrust of doctors led him to delay treatment; he risked death and was saved only by emergency blood transfusion.

Amongst his delusions was the belief that unknown villains were trying to kill him by poisoning his food. For this reason, G\F6del would only eat his wife's cooking, refusing to even eat his own cooking for fear of being poisoned.

Death.
Late in 1977, Adele became incapacitated due to illness and so could no longer cook for G\F6del. Due to his paranoia, he refused to eat any food at all and thus died of "malnutrition and inanition caused by personality disturbance" in Princeton Hospital on January 14, 1978.  He weighed 65 pounds.

Legacy.
The Kurt G\F6del Society, founded in 1987, was named in his honor. It is an international organization for the promotion of research in the areas of logic, philosophy, and the history of mathematics.

G\F6del's friendship with Einstein.


G\F6del had a most distinguished coach for his citizenship exam: Albert Einstein, who had earlier earned his own citizenship and who was concerned that his friend's unpredictable behavior might jeopardize his chances.  Einstein accompanied G\F6del to the hearing.  To everyone's consternation, G\F6del suddenly informed the presiding judge that he had discovered a way in which a dictatorship could be legally installed in the United States, through a logical contradiction in the U.S. Constitution.  Fortunately, the judge, who was apparently a very patient person, took this in good part and awarded G\F6del his citizenship. (See .)

Einstein and G\F6del had a legendary friendship, shared in the walks they took together to and from the Institute for Advanced Studies. The nature of their conversations was a mystery to the other Institute members. Economist Oskar Morgenstern recounts that toward the end of his life Einstein confided that "his own work no longer meant much, that he came to the Institute merely to have the privilege of walking home with G\F6del". (Rebecca Goldstein, ISBN 0393051692, p 33)

 Important publications .
In German:
1931, "\DCber formal unentscheidbare S\E4tze der Principia Mathematica und verwandter Systeme," Monatshefte f\FCr Mathematik und Physik 38: 173-98.

In English:
1940. The Consistency of the Axiom of Choice and of the Generalized Continuum Hypothesis with the Axioms of Set Theory. Princeton University Press.
1947. "What is Cantor's continuum problem?" The American Mathematical Monthly 54: 515-25. Revised version in Paul Benacerraf and Hilary Putnam, eds., 1984 (1964). Philosophy of Mathematics: Selected Readings. Cambridge Univ. Press: 470-85.

In English translation:
 Kurt Godel, 1992. On Formally Undecidable Propositions Of Principia Mathematica And Related Systems, tr. B. Meltzer, with a comprehensive introduction by Richard Braithwaite. Dover reprint of the 1962 Basic Books edition.
 Kurt Godel, 2000. http://www.research.ibm.com/people/h/hirzel/papers/canon00-goedel.pdf On Formally Undecidable Propositions Of Principia Mathematica And Related Systems, tr. Martin Hirzel ;
Jean van Heijenoort, 1967. A Source Book in Mathematical Logic, 1879-1931. Harvard Univ. Press.
1930. "The completeness of the axioms of the functional calculus of logic," 582-91.
1930. "Some metamathematical results on completeness and consistency," 595-96. Abstract to (1931).
1931. "On formally undecidable propositions of Principia Mathematica and related systems," 596-616.
1931a. "On completeness and consistency," 616-17.

Collected Works : Volume I: Publications 1929-1936 ISBN 0195039645,  Volume II: Publications 1938-1974 ISBN 0195039726, Volume III: Unpublished Essays and Lectures ISBN 0195072553, Volume IV: Correspondence, A-G ISBN 0198500734. Publisher: Oxford University Press, USA;

Further reading and references.
  Dawson, John W., 1997. Logical dilemmas: The life and work of Kurt G\F6del. Wellesley MA: A K Peters.
 Depauli-Schimanovich, Werner, and Casti, John L., 19nn. G\F6del: A life of logic. Perseus.
 Franz\E9n, Torkel, 2005. G\F6del's Theorem: An Incomplete Guide to Its Use and Abuse. Wellesley, MA: A K Peters.
 Goldstein, Rebecca, 2005. Incompleteness: The Proof and Paradox of Kurt Godel (Great Discoveries). W. W. Norton.
 Ivor Grattan-Guinness, 2000. The Search for Mathematical Roots 1870 1940. Princeton Univ. Press.
 Jaakko Hintikka, 2000. On G\F6del.  Wadsworth.
 Douglas Hofstadter, 1980. G\F6del, Escher, Bach. Vintage.
 Stephen Kleene, 1967. Mathematical Logic.  Dover paperback reprint ca. 2001.
 Ernst Nagel and Newman, James R., 1958. G\F6del's Proof. New York Univ. Press.
 Raymond Smullyan, 1992. Godel's Incompleteness Theorems. Oxford University Press.
 Hao Wang, 1987. Reflections on Kurt G\F6del. MIT Press.
 Wang, Hao. 1996. A Logical Journey: From Godel to Philosophy. MIT Press.
 Yourgrau, Palle, 1999. G\F6del Meets Einstein: Time Travel in the G\F6del Universe. Chicago: Open Court.
 Yourgrau, Palle, 2004. A World Without Time: The Forgotten Legacy of G\F6del and Einstein. Basic Books.

See also.
G%C3%B6del's incompleteness theorem;
G\F6del dust, an exact solution of the Einstein field equation;
G\F6del Prize;
G\F6del programming language;
G\F6del, Escher, Bach;
G\F6del's Slingshot;
List of Austrian scientists;

External links.
 ;
 ;
 Time Bandits - an article about the relationship between G\F6del and Einstein by Jim Holt;
International Journal of Computers, Communications & Control, ISSN 1841-9844 (online), ISSN 1841-9836 (print), Vol. I (2006), No.1, pp. 69-71 / "Logic will never be the same again"- Kurt G\F6del Centenary, by Gabriel Ciobanu;
 ;
 "G\F6del and the limits of logic" by John W Dawson Jr. (June 2006);
 Notices of the AMS, April 2006, Volume 53, Number 4 Kurt G\F6del Centenary Issue;
 Paul Davies and Freeman Dyson discuss Kurt Godel;
































































ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="286736" title="Ernest Callenbach" nonfiltered="199" processed="198" dbindex="450199">
Ernest Callenbach (born April 3, 1929) is an American writer.

Born in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, he attended the University of Chicago, where he was drawn into the then 'new wave' of serious attention to film as an art form. After six months in Paris at the Sorbonne, watching four films a day, he returned to Chicago and earned a Master s degree in English and Communications.

Callenbach then moved to California. From 1955 to 1991, he was on the staff of the University of California Press (Berkeley).  A general copywriter for a number of years, he edited the Press's Film Quarterly  from 1958 until 1991.  He also occasionally taught film courses at U.C. and at San Francisco State University. 

For many years Callenbach edited the Natural History Guides at the U.C. Press.  He began to take environmental issues and their connections to human value systems, social patterns, and lifestyles just as seriously as he had taken film. He is therefore known as an author of green books, namely as author of the ecological utopias Ecotopia (1975) and Ecotopia Emerging (1981). He is said to have coined the word "ecotopia."

In terms of concepts of human involvement with the ecology, as well as some of the economic and social concepts, the Ecotopia books are related to what is known as the sustainability movement.   Callenbach s Ecotopian concept is not "Luddite"   he does not reject high technology, but rather his fictional society shows a conscious selectivity about technology.  As an example, with its emphasis on personal rather than impersonal interaction, Callenbach s Ecotopian society anticipates the development and liberal usage of videoconferencing.

Indeed, for all his involvement with print publications, Callenbach remained quite interested in visual media.  Aspects of his book Ecotopia in some ways anticipated "reality TV"   which emerged into recognition, and was given a label as a genre, 20 or more years later   because in the story the daily life of the legislature and some of that of the judicial courts is televised in this fictional society, and televised debates (including technical debates concerning ecological problems) met a need and desire among citizens.

Callenbach has been a part of the circle of West Coast technologists, architects, social thinkers, and scientists which has included such people as Ursula K. Le Guin, Starhawk (Miriam Simos), Sim Van der Ryn, Peter Calthorpe, Stewart Brand, Kevin Kelly, J. Baldwin, and John Todd.  As with a number of these others, he has been a speaker, discussion panellist, and essayist.

Recently, Callenbach has introduced the story of a real-world community movement in Japan that is reminiscent, in its aims and practices, of his Ecotopian society.  He visited Japan and investigated the Yamagishi movement.  It encompasses some three dozen intentional communities founded on the same underlying principles: living an ecologically based integration of people with agriculture (pig, cattle, and chicken livestock rasing, and organic-vegetable and fruit farming), and living a social life based on principles of democracy, mutual understanding, support, and health.  Each individual settlement is referred to as jikkenji ( demonstration community for the world ).

Books by Ernest Callenbach.

 Living Poor With Style (New York: Bantam, 1972);
 Ecotopia (1975);
 Ecotopia Emerging (1981);
 The Ecotopian Encyclopedia (1981);
 Publisher's Lunch (1989);
 Ecology: A pocket guide (1998);
 Living Cheaply With Style: Live Better and Spend Less (Berkeley: Ronin, 1993). ISBN 0-914171-61-5;
 Living Cheaply With Style: Live Better and Spend Less, Second edition (Berkeley: Ronin, 2000). ISBN 1-57951-014-0;
 Bring Back the Buffalo!: A Sustainable Future for America's Great Plains (2000);

 Further reading .
 Ernest Callenbach "Ecotopia in Japan?," in: Communities 132 (Fall 2006), pp. 42-49.
 R. Frye, "The Economics of Ecotopia," in: Alternative Futures 3 (1980), pp. 71-81.
 K.T. Goldbach, "Utopian Music: Music History of the Future in Novels by Bellamy, Callenbach and Huxley," in: Utopia Matters. Theory, Politics, Literature and the Arts, ed. F. Viera, M. Freitas, Porto 2005, pp. 237-243.
 H. Tschachtler, "Despotic Reason in Arcadia. Ernest Callenbach's Ecological Utopias," Science-Fiction Studies 11 (1984), pp. 304-317.

External links.

 Book covers and descriptions of his books;

 E. Callenbach's Web site - biography, books, lectures, contact info;
 Callenbach's - non-religious - Earth's Ten Commandments;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5665364" title="Miscanthus sinensis" nonfiltered="200" processed="199" dbindex="450200">


Miscanthus sinensis (Chinese silver grass, Maiden grass, Zebra grass, Porcupine Grass; syn. Eulalia japonica Trin., Miscanthus sinensis f. glaber Honda, Miscanthus sinensis var. gracillimus Hitchc., Miscanthus sinensis var. variegatus Beal, Miscanthus sinensis var. zebrinus Beal, Saccharum japonicum Thunb.) is a grass native to eastern Asia throughout most of China, Japan and Korea.

It is a herbaceous perennial plant growing to 0.8-2 m (rarely 4 m) tall, forming dense clumps from an underground rhizome. The leaves are 18 75 cm long and 0.3 2 cm broad. The flowers are purplish, held above the foliage.

Cultivation and uses.

It is widely cultivated as an ornamental plant in temperate regions around the world. It has become an invasive species in parts of North America.

Several cultivars have been selected, including 'Stricta' with narrow growth habit, 'Variegata' with white margins, and 'Zebrina' with horizontal yellow and green stripes across the leaves.

References.
Flora of China: Miscanthus sinensis;
Virginia Cooperative Extension: Miscanthus sinensis 'Stricta';






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="246707" title="Solidit\E0 della nebbia" nonfiltered="201" processed="200" dbindex="450201">
"Solidit\E0 della nebbia" (Solidity of mist) is a piece of electronic music, composed by Juan Maria Solare, for bassett horn and electronic sounds. It was made at the Studio of the Musikhochschule in Cologne with the support of Marcel Schmidt and the guidance of Hans Ulrich Humpert. Based on samples of bassett horn, performed by Michele Marelli, and of his voice. The first performance was by Michele Marelli (corno di bassetto) on 12 October, 2000 in the Aula Magna of the Hochschule f\FCr Musik at Cologne, opening the festival for the 35th anniversary of the School's Studio for Electronic Music. It was repeated by Michele Marelli on 25 January 2002 in Alessandria (Italy) for the Jazz Association "L' AX". In May 2002 the piece won an award at the Tribuna Argentina de M\FAsica Electroac\FAstica (TRIME), organized by the Foundation Encuentros Internacionales de M\FAsica Contempor\E1nea (EIMC-SIMC), with the support of the Consejo Argentino de la M\FAsica (CAMU-CIM-Unesco).


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="9295992" title="Jorge Fondebrider" nonfiltered="202" processed="201" dbindex="450202">
Jorge Fondebrider is an Argentinian writer and poet born in Buenos Aires in 1956. His published poetry books are Eleg\EDas (1983), Imperio de la Luna (1987), Standards (1993) and Los \FAltimos tres a\F1os (2006). He also published La Buenos Aires ajena (2000), a history of the city told by foreigners that visited it since 1536 to 2000; Versiones de la Patagonia (2003), a history of that part of Argentina, told by confronting different versions of the same facts, and Licantrop\EDa. Historias de hombres lobos de Occidente, a history of werewolfism in the Western world through the ages until the present. He also translated many books of contemporary French poetry  Henri Deluy and Yves Di Manno, among others , Poes\EDa francesa contempor\E1nea. 1940-1997, an anthology on that matter and together, with Gerardo Gambolini, Poes\EDa irlandesa contempor\E1nea, the first bilingual anthology of contemporary Irish poetry published in a Spanish speaking country.  









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="359006" title="Virgin Books" nonfiltered="203" processed="202" dbindex="450203">
Virgin Books is the book publishing arm of Virgin Enterprises, the company originally set up by Richard Branson as a record company. The book publishing arm was established in the late 1970s; in the latter part of the 1980s Virgin purchased several existing companies, including WH Allen, well-known among Doctor Who fans for their Target Books imprint; Virgin Books was incorporated into WH Allen in 1989, but in 1991 WH Allen was renamed Virgin Publishing Ltd.

Among Virgin Publishing's best-known books are the Doctor Who New Adventures novels, officially-licensed full-length novels carrying on the story of the popular science-fiction television series following its cancellation in 1989. Virgin published this series from 1991 to 1997, as well as several range of Doctor Who reference books from 1992 to 1998 under the Doctor Who Books imprint.

Other popular ranges have included various erotic fiction lines (Black Lace for heterosexual women, Nexus for heterosexual men (fetish), Idol for gay men, Sapphire for lesbians), episode guides to numerous television series, and books on a variety of films and musicians. It also published the autobiography of its owner, Richard Branson. In recent years the company has returned to the name Virgin Books.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1748827" title="Chloroprene" nonfiltered="204" processed="203" dbindex="450204">


Chloroprene is the common name for the organic compound 2-chloro-1,3-butadiene, which has the chemical formula C4H5Cl.  The chemical structure is shown at right.  It is used as monomer for the production of the polymer polychloroprene, a type of synthetic rubber.  Polychloroprene is better known to the public as Neoprene, the trade name DuPont gave it when the company first developed it and currently used by DuPont Dow.  

Production of chloroprene.

The acetylene process was used to produce chloroprene until the 1960s.  In this process, acetylene and hydrogen chloride were used as shown here:

 

This process had disadvantages in that it was very energy-intensive and had high investment costs.  

The modern chloroprene process which is currently used by nearly all makers uses butadiene differently. 1,3-Butadiene undergoes addition of chlorine across one of its double bonds in its molecule to give 3,4-dichloro-1-butene.  Then this compound undergoes an elimination of a hydrogen atom in the #3 position and the chlorine atom in the #4 position as HCl forming a double bond between the #3 and #4 carbon atoms in the molecule, yielding chloroprene.

References.
Polychloroprene (CR), chloroprene rubber;

External links.
;
;
;
IARC Monograph "Chloroprene.";















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="93404" title="Los Alamos County, New Mexico" nonfiltered="205" processed="204" dbindex="450205">

Los Alamos County is a county located in the U.S. state of New Mexico.  As of 2000, the population is 18,343.  The county was administered exclusively by the Federal government during the Manhattan Project, but is currently an "incorporated county" as a result of its previous Federal administration.  The two population centers in the county, Los Alamos, New Mexico and White Rock, New Mexico are not incorporated independently but are commonly referred to as "townsites" or "communities".  Many county offices are located at the townsite of Los Alamos, New Mexico which serves as the county seat6.  The county is home to Los Alamos National Laboratory.

Geography.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 283 km\B2 (109 mi\B2).  There is no significant (< 0.01%) open water in the county.  The highest point is along the northern border of the county, near the summit of Caballo Mountain, at 10,480'+.  Los Alamos County is the smallest county in New Mexico by area.

Adjacent counties.
 Rio Arriba County, New Mexico - north;
 Santa Fe County, New Mexico - east;
 Sandoval County, New Mexico - south, west;

Demographics.
As of the census2 of 2000, there were 18,343 people, 7,497 households, and 5,337 families residing in the county.  The population density was 65/km\B2 (168/mi\B2).  There were 7,937 housing units at an average density of 28/km\B2 (73/mi\B2).  The racial makeup of the county was 90.26% White, 0.37% Black or African American, 0.58% Native American, 3.78% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 2.70% from other races, and 2.28% from two or more races.  11.75% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.

There were 7,497 households out of which 33.50% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 62.70% were married couples living together, 5.70% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.80% were non-families. 24.90% of all households were made up of individuals and 6.70% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.43 and the average family size was 2.92.

In the county the population was spread out with 25.80% under the age of 18, 4.40% from 18 to 24, 27.70% from 25 to 44, 30.00% from 45 to 64, and 12.10% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 41 years. For every 100 females there were 101.40 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 99.70 males.

The median income for a household in the county was $78,993, and the median income for a family was $90,032. Males had a median income of $70,063 versus $40,246 for females. The per capita income for the county was $34,646.  2.90% of the population and 1.90% of families were below the poverty line.   1.80% of those under the age of 18 and 4.70% of those 65 and older were living below the poverty line.

 Quality of living .

In a  study conducted by American City Business Journals in 2004, Los Alamos County topped the list as the best place to live in America in terms of quality of life. This was attributed to the high levels of  job stability, income and education of Los Alamos residents, many of whom are employed as scientists and engineers at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. The county has one of the highest number of PhDs per capita   and the  median household income of $78,993 per year is the fourth highest among all the counties in the US. Other factors contributing to Los Alamos's high quality-of-life index were the access to affordable housing and short commuting times.

External links.
MSNBC: Where's the best place to live in America;
Los Alamos Monitor newspaper;












ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8211384" title="Gaussian broadening" nonfiltered="206" processed="205" dbindex="450206">
Gaussian broadening is a mathematical technique used to describe dispersal patterns in a sample. It has been used as a photo editing and PhotoShop technique.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5891807" title="Environmental theater" nonfiltered="207" processed="206" dbindex="450207">
Environmental theater is a style of performance for plays and musicals which attempts to immerse the audience in the performance. For example, some acting may happen in aisles. In the case of a black box theater acting platforms may even be built between audience section. Sometimes a performer will talk to, or otherise involve an audience member in a scene. This can be a real audience member, or an actor planted to appear as an audience member. 


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2036902" title="Summerisle" nonfiltered="208" processed="207" dbindex="450208">
Summerisle are a Scottish indie pop band, consisting of singer/songwriters David Lemon and Douglas Mitchell. They take their name from the fictional Summerisle, the setting for the cult movie The Wicker Man.

Their first release was the EP Doodlebug in 2000. Subsequent releases have included Yesterday's News, Gallery Girl and Everyday Reality. In July, 2005 the band released their new album Rockpools.

External links.
 The Summerisle website;
 The Summerisle MySpace Site;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6444875" title="Matt Arnold" nonfiltered="209" processed="208" dbindex="450209">

Matthew Fergus Arnold (born 22 December 1961) is the Northern correspondent of GMTV, based in Manchester, England.

Born in Derry, Northern Ireland, Arnold was educated at Gresham's School in Norfolk from 1975 to 1980. He then backpacked around the world before joining the Royal Navy in 1986 as a Aircrew Officer, flying in Lynx helicopters. His five-year commission in the Navy came to an end in 1991 

He then worked as a runner on the ITV daytime quiz show Talk About, before returning to college to study journalism at Highbury College in Hampshire. 
   
His next job was with Capital Radio's Flying Eye in 1993, in which he navigated Londoners through traffic for two years. 

In 1995 Arnold became one of the first presenters on the new national cable television channel L!VE TV, covering showbiz and sport stories. In 1996 he joined HTV as a sports presenter and in 1999 was promoted to be the HTV news presenter for documentaries and magazine shows. He next became a sports reporter at Sky News and in 2002 presented a special two-part documentary on the Glastonbury Festival for ITV1. In 2003 he began his present job with GMTV.

He sings in a band called The Intelligence Men, which has released two singles. He lives with his wife Dominique (married 2006) in Manchester. This is his third marriage. 

External links.
Matt's profile at GM.TV;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4131869" title="Atl\E9tico Club Mineros de Guayana" nonfiltered="210" processed="209" dbindex="450210">

Atl\E9tico Club Mineros de Guayana, usually known as Mineros de Guayana or simply Mineros, is a Venezuelan football (soccer) club based in Ciudad Guayana.

History.
The Colegio Loyola Gumilla's field, located in Puerto Ordaz, was used in football matches. The people who played at the field decided to found a football club. On November 11, 1981, the club was founded as Club Deportivo Mineros de Guayana.

On November 20, 1981, the club's foundation constitutive act was signed.

On January 3, 1982, the club played its first match, against Villa Colombia FC, a Guayana's amateur club. Mineros won 2-0, both goals scored by Jos\E9 Pacheco.

On September 5, 1982, the club won the Segunda Divisi\F3n Venezolana, being promoted to the following year's first division.

In 1989, the club won the Venezuelan league.

Titles.
Primera Divisi\F3n Venezolana: 1989;
Segunda Divisi\F3n Venezolana: 1982;

Colors.
The club's colors are blue and black.

Trivia.

The club's name means Miners of Guayana.
Minero's blue color was chose after Cruzeiro of Brazil.

Logo.

The club's logo is composed of a geometrical figure, which is a carbon diamond crystal zoomed millions of times with a microscope.

Stadium.
Mineros plays their home matches at Polideportivo Cachamay, which has a maximum capacity of 12,000 people.

References.
Much of the content of this article comes from  and from the  (retrieved February 19, 2006).

External links.

 Official website;











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8213306" title="At the Gates Bootleg in Manchester" nonfiltered="211" processed="210" dbindex="450211">


At the Gates Bootleg in Manchester is a bootleg recording by the band At The Gates, recorded on February 5th of 1996 in Manchester UK. It has been circulated via the internet. The quality is sub par due to in part it being a bootleg, but easy to listen to even for the average listener. 


Track listing.
 "Slaughter of the Soul"   3:21;
 "Terminal Spirit Disease"   3:57;
 "Cold"   3:17;
 "The Swarm"   3:39;
 "Under a Serpent Sun"   4:20;
 "Blinded by Fear"   3:27;
 "Suicide Nation"   3:48;
 "The Burning Darkness"   3:06;
 "The Beautiful Wound"   3:49;
 "Nausea"   2:41;
 "Captor of Sin"   4:05 (Slayer cover);
 "Forever Blind"   3:53 ;
 "Raped by the Light of Christ"   3:43 ;
 "Kingdom Gone"    5:37;
 "Need"   2:36;




Lineup.
Anders Bj\F6rler - Guitar, Drums;
Jonas Bj\F6rler - Bass;
Adrian Erlandsson - Drums;
Martin Larsson - Guitar;
Tomas Lindberg - Vocals;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5161394" title="Grande Yellowhead Regional Division No. 35" nonfiltered="212" processed="211" dbindex="450212">
Grande Yellowhead Regional Division No. 35 (GYRD) is the public school board that stretches from Jasper National Park, east to Evansburg, and north to Grande Cache. GYRD operates 18 schools in Edson, Hinton, Grande Cache, Jasper as well as rural schools in the area. The enrollment for 2005/2006 was approximately 5,000 students.

External links.
Grande Yellowhead Regional Division No. 35;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8326195" title="Mark Twain I.S.239" nonfiltered="213" processed="212" dbindex="450213">


 History of Mark Twain .

In 1972 the NAACP brought suit in Hart V. Community School Board 21 in
the U.S. District Court, charging that Mark Twain Junior High School 239
was unconstitutionally segregated. The school is located in Coney
Island, a predominantly Black and Hispanic section of the school
district and in fact had about an 85% percent minority enrollment. Judge
Weinstein found the plaintiffs were correct in that the school was
unconstitutionally segregated.

The remedy plan proposed by the NAACP was developed by Professor Dan
Dodson of New York University and would have compelled the busing of
pupils throughout the district for integration purposes. The school
board plan was to make Mark Twain a magnet school for the gifted and
talented and thus attract sufficient white pupils on a voluntary basis
to integrate the school, and at the same time, all the middle schools in
the district. The plan was the product of more than 150 people
representing a broad spectrum of input from community, parent, District
21 and Brooklyn College professionals.

Judge Weinstein then appointed a master Professor, Curtis Burger of
Columbia University Law School to report back to him with a
recommendation. The recommendation basically was to accept the school
board's plan and the judge so ordered in July of 1974.

Mark Twain Junior High School 239 for the Gifted and Talented opened as
a magnet school effective September 1975 beginning with grade 7, phasing
in grades 8 and 9 over a three year period and was integrated to the
ratio of white pupils to minority pupils in the district which was 7 to
3 at that time.

Children admitted to Mark Twain must meet minimal standards in behavior,
citizenship, attendance, reading, math, and must demonstrate an
identifiable ability or potential in either athletics, art,
computers-mathematics, creative writing, dance, music (strings, vocal,
winds), science, theater or visual media (video and photography).

Mark Twain later converted to its present day Intermediate School
designation (grades 6, 7, 8) but remains organized into mini-schools (we
call them clusters) of four classes with a team of four teachers
assigned to each cluster. Each cluster of teachers is scheduled for a
series of cluster periods during the week with stress on
interdisciplinary planning.

There is no tracking in the school, and classes are heterogeneous and
well integrated. All students study a foreign language and each child is
involved in a talent area in depth. All classes are co-educational
including physical education, technology and home and career skills. No
bells are rung during the day, yet classes change smoothly and
efficiently.

Since 1975, Mark Twain has attracted many applicants for each available
seat. It is recognized by parents and educators throughout the district,
the region, the city and the nation as having successfully achieve its
goal for integration and for providing a meaningful program for the
gifted and talented middle school student.

----

 Mark Twain Today .

Mark Twain is a school with various talents, grouping in a pool of children with different academic or physical abilities. This is a public school deemed one of the best intermediate schools of New York City. A entrance exam must be taken in either a written format or physical actions such as dancing, acting, and playing or showing athletic potential. The different talents include dance talent, drama talent, art talent, athletic talent, science talent, math talent, strings talent, vocal talent, winds talent, media talent, and creative writing talent. Everyone belonging to that school can either belong in one of the talents, but requires two subjects to be taken for the entrance exam. A student passing the exam can only belong in one talent after they get educated within the school. The entrance exam is a higher level fifth grade test (for every subject), which is the grade all students take their exams. After the exam a student must choose a language they want to learn if they get in. 

Mark Twain school has a certain type of way to group the students instead of grades. They use a unit of classification called "clusters." Clusters are groups or classes use to group students. The sixth grade clusters are: 6K, 6L, and 6M. The seventh grade clusters are: 7A, 7B, and 7C. The eighth grade clusters are: 8F, 8G, and 8H. The clusters translate into classes by including a number from 1 to 4, inclusive. For instance, 8G4. The first number represents grade level, the middle letter is the cluster letter, and the last number is simply used as a format to group students in different sections. Certain talents and foreign language belong in different clusters. 
Every year, Mark Twain has schoolwide S.O. Elections to elect officers for the Student Organization (S.O.)
All candidates are required to write up a speech and orally present it to an audience which consists of teachers, staff and students. All students are required to vote for S.O. President, S.O. Secretary, S.O. Treasurer and their own grade's S.O. Vice President. 
Mark Twain is followed by abundants of programs filling the atmosphere. Tennis program, chess program, basketball team, volleyball team, and math team are different after school or competitional programs. 

Honors is a different way to accelerate the learning speed of much talented students in different subjects in Mark Twain. Some students get into honors, but some do not, depending on the overall grade of the marking period. Usually honors are for students having an overall grade of 90 or over for a certain subject. The only subjects you can be in honors are math, science, social studies, and English (excluding talent). Those in honors learn more of have more work to develop on. Classes do not change and periods for the honors and non-honors do not change.
Tutoring is an important factor in school that helps it keep students up to level. If a student is not doing well in class, the subject teacher will call for them to go to tutoring on their normal tutoring schedule. If a student that is doing fine or looks fine to the teacher, but wants to go to tutoring they may also go. All tutoring periods are during lunch. Before a student can go to tutoring, they must get a pass and bag lunch before they head towards their class. Some students are students at higher level that tutor students that attend the tutoring. 

Mid-terms are given out every semester. They are to check up a students grades and see the level they are in. This exam is also graded as a test. Every subject including foreign lanuguage has a mid-term. The mid-term usually takes more than a day.    
Special occasions sometimes occur in Mark Twain when famous people start visiting the school and cameras will be on. The school will always give out a letter and ask permission if the camera crew could take a picture. 

Mark Twain consist of one of the most buses in New York City intermediate school because students from all over New York city including those from Bronx join the school making it hard for others to walk home or walk to school, so tons of buses drive students to school or back home. 

Mark Twain is a famous school because of its programs and academic advantages over other schools, but the main reason for so many people choosing to join the school is because students entering it has a high rate of getting into a Specialized High School, which is the top public high schools of New York city.
Punishments in Mark Twain and like all schools have reasons for that punishment. When a student attacks or retaliates against a student, he or she may be suspended or possibly expelled from the school. Some important crimes include graffiti in restrooms, which leads to arrestment or severe punishment, for instance suspended. People of the Mark Twain sometimes face punishment because they weren't doing there homework correctly or barely pays attention during class. Mark Twain strictly forbids the act of chewing gum, devastating the restrooms, throwing paper, and playing with water bottles. Investigators are sometimes sent out to identify handprints and catch the culprit of a wrong doing. Lunch period punishments include silent lunch, no desserts, and eating last.  

Mark Twain is visualized as a three floor building with a roof on top. Subjects are organized through the floors. The first floor consists of language arts and 6L talent classes. The second floor consists of social studies classes and most of the foreign language classes. The locker rooms for gym also stand on this floor. Computer class lies with these subject classes also. The two talents on this floor is math and creative writing. The third floor groups math classes, science classes, technology class, science talent, dance talent, media talent, and one foreign language class, which is French.  
Enrichment is an extra class use to consume time and allow students to participate in different subjects most children will not do. ID classes are classes for students from 7th to 8th grade. This system of ID classes functions as a individual schedule for students. ID1, ID2, ID3, and ID4 classes can be different to everyone in each homeroom and are replacements for science, math, English, and social studies class. This tolerates students from other homerooms to interact with each other.  
Mark Twain has a school website called http://is239.schoolwires.com, which provides the name of teachers and the events that are occurring those few days. Teachers are also posted on the website so homework can be seen for each class. Sometimes teachers might post useful websites for students to use or learn from.

 External links .
Recent Attendance 
Last week's attendance figures along with year to date attendance
 ;

----

School Report Cards 
2004-2005 School Report Card
  ;
 
----

Ethnicity Breakdown 
Student population by ethnicity
  ;
 
----

Official NYCDOE Expenditures 
Does not include monies raised by our Parents' Association or other fundraising measure 
  ;
 
----

Detailed Budget Allocations 
Again, doesn't take into account any monies raised by our Parents' Association or other fundraising efforts like shows, yearbook advertising, etc.
  ;
 
----

Budget Summary Including Personnel Allocations 
Details about personnel allocations
  ;
 
----

Building Facilities Reports 
Detailed reports on our physical plant
  ;

----



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4352386" title="Rough pasture" nonfiltered="214" processed="213" dbindex="450214">
Rough pasture is non-intensive grazing pasture, commonly found on poor soils, especially in hilly areas, throughout the world.

External link.
Hill Plan Examples, Macaulay Institute, Aberdeen, Scotland;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3734356" title="Rump organization" nonfiltered="215" processed="214" dbindex="450215">
In Politics, a Rump organization is a remnant of a larger political grouping that continues to exist after the group has formally dissolved, split or been abolished.

See also.
 Rump legislature;
 Rump state;
 Rump Parliament;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7097563" title="Bhaskar Menon" nonfiltered="216" processed="215" dbindex="450216">
Bhaskar Menon is a music industry executive of Indian origin. Having completed his education at Delhi University and Oxford University, he joined the record company EMI in London. In 1973, as chairman of Capitol Records, Menon played an instrumental role in ensuring the commercial success, in the American market, of Pink Floyd's album Dark Side of the Moon. 





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2225947" title="Linda Martin" nonfiltered="217" processed="216" dbindex="450217">
Linda Martin (born April 17, 1947) is an Irish singer, and TV presenter who started off her musical career when she joined the band Chips in Belfast in 1969 while she was still in school.

She participated in the National Song Contest four times as a member of Chips, however they did not score successfully. She participated another four times in the contest as a soloist and once more as part of the group "Linda Martin and Friends". With nine participations, she has been the most frequent entrant in the National Song Contest's history. She represented Ireland twice at the Eurovision Song Contest winning once in 1992:

1984 - Terminal 3 - Text/Music by Johnny Logan (Se\E1n Sherrard) - finished second;
1992 - Why Me? - Text/Music by Johnny Logan - won the contest;

Linda was Ireland's fourth Eurovision winner.

She has presented the RT\C9 quiz show The Lyrics Board, one of the broadcaster's more popular formats. She served as one of Louis Walsh's behind-the-scenes team on the first series of ITV's The X Factor.

She also served as a judge on the first, second and fourth seasons of RT\C9's You're A Star and on Charity You're A Star in Summer 2005 and Summer 2006. She is expected to return for the Third season in Summer 2007.

She was a guest performer at Congratulations, the 50th anniversary Eurovision concert in Copenhagen, Denmark, in October 2005.

See also .
 List of people on stamps of Ireland;

External links.
  ;
"Why Me? lyric;
"Terminal 3" lyric;



















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7883857" title="List of film documentaries about Iraq" nonfiltered="218" processed="217" dbindex="450218">
This is a list of film documentaries about Iraq.

 365 Boots on the Ground;
 500 Miles to Babylon;
 About Baghdad;
 A Company of Soldiers;
 A Marine's Iraq Experiences;
 Assignment: Iraq;
 Baghdad Blogger/Salam Pax - Video Reports from Iraq;
 Baghdad ER;
 Baghdad or Bust;
 BattleGround: 21 Days on the Empire's Edge;
 Beneath Iraq and a Hard Place (Satire);
 Blood of my Brother;
 Bridge to Baghdad I;
 Bridge to Baghdad II;
 Broken Soldiers;
 Buried in the Sand: The Deception of America ;
 The Code of Silence;
 Combat Diary: The Marines of Lima Company;
 Confronting Iraq;
 Control Room;
 Dateline: Abu Ghraib - The Sequel;
 Dateline: Abu Ghraib - A Torturer's Tale;
 Dispatches: Iraq's Missing Billions;
 Dispatches: Iraq: The Reckoning;
 Dispatches: Iraq: The Women's Story;
 The Empire Strikes Out;
 The Dream of Sparrows;
 Faces from the Front: American Marines in Iraq;
 Fahrenheit 9/11;
 Fallujah;
 Fallujah the Hidden Massacre;
 "The Freedom" in Iraq;
 Frontline: The Insurgency;
 The Ground Truth;
 Gunner Palace;
 "Here Bullet" War Poems;
 Honour Betrayed;
 How the US armed Iraq with chemical and biological weapons;
 In Focus: Iraq the Quagmire;
 Iraq - A Hostage Nation;
 Iraq: The Cameraman's Story;
 Iraq's Missing Billions;
 Iraq - On the Brink;
 Iraq: The Real Story;
 Iraq Uploaded;
 Iraq: The Continuous War;
 Iraq for Sale: The War Profiteers;
 Iraq: The Hidden Story;
 Iraq in Fragments;
 Iraq - Laser Weapons;
 Iraq War;
 Iraq: Voices From the Street;
 Last Letters Home;
 Life with the 101st Airborne;
 The Lost Year in Iraq;
 Meeting Resistance;
 Mission Accomplished;
 Mosaic Special Report: The Cost of Occupation;
 Mosaic Special Report - Shia Rising in Iraq;
 My Country, My Country;
 National Geographic - 21 Days to Baghdad;
 Occupation: Dreamland;
 Off to War;
 Oil Factor: Behind the War on Terror;
 On Iraq's Borders;
 Paying the Price: Killing the Children of Iraq;
 Private Warriors;
 Ray McGovern on Iraq and Iran;
 Real War on Terror: Iraq the Reckoning;
 Real War on Terror: America's Secret Shame;
 Real War on Terror: Kidnap and Torture American Style;
 Remembering Saddam;
 Return to the Land of Wonders;
 Road to War - Famous second resolution meeting at the Whitehouse - Secret Memo;
 Rush to War;
 Shadow Company;
 Soldiers Pay;
 Soundtrack to War;
 Star Wars in Iraq;
 Things Related and Not: From 9/11 to Baghdad;
 Town Hall Meeting on Iraq;
 Trucking in Iraq;
 TV Iraqi Style;
 Uncovered: The War on Iraq;
 Unembedded: Independent Photojournalists in Iraq ;
 Unembedded in Iraq;
 USA Chemical Weapons in FALLUJA;
 Voices of Iraq;
 Wars in Peace - Iran Iraq War;
 The War Tapes;
 WMD: Weapons of Mass Deception;
 WMD: Weapon of Mass Destruction ;
 Zero Hour: Capturing Saddam;

See also.
 Iraq;
 Documentary film;
 Political Cinema;
 Propaganda;
 As-Sahab Foundation for Islamic Media Publication;
 Embedded journalist;
 2003 invasion of Iraq media coverage;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="117494" title="Grout Township, Michigan" nonfiltered="219" processed="218" dbindex="450219">
Grout Township is a township in Gladwin County in the U.S. state of Michigan.  The population was 1,869 at the 2000 census.

The City of Gladwin is at the northeast corner of the township. M-18 runs north-south along the east of the township and M-61 runs east-west through the north. 

Geography.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 90.3 km\B2 (34.8 mi\B2).  89.9 km\B2 (34.7 mi\B2) of it is land and 0.4 km\B2 (0.1 mi\B2) of it (0.40%) is water.

Demographics.
As of the census2 of 2000, there were 1,869 people, 654 households, and 516 families residing in the township.  The population density was 20.8/km\B2 (53.9/mi\B2).  There were 754 housing units at an average density of 8.4/km\B2 (21.7/mi\B2).  The racial makeup of the township was 98.07% White, 0.86% Native American, 0.05% Asian, 0.05% from other races, and 0.96% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.91% of the population.

There were 654 households out of which 32.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 67.7% were married couples living together, 6.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 21.1% were non-families. 17.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.81 and the average family size was 3.14.

In the township the population was spread out with 26.5% under the age of 18, 8.3% from 18 to 24, 27.1% from 25 to 44, 24.0% from 45 to 64, and 14.0% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females there were 101.0 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 97.0 males.

The median income for a household in the township was $34,808, and the median income for a family was $37,500. Males had a median income of $30,848 versus $21,146 for females. The per capita income for the township was $15,438.  About 7.3% of families and 12.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 18.1% of those under age 18 and 9.0% of those age 65 or over.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1660636" title="T?eb\ED?" nonfiltered="220" processed="219" dbindex="450220">



T eb\ED  (German: Trebitsch) is a city in Moravia of the Czech Republic with a population of approximately 40,000. The city is located on the Jihlava river. The Jewish Quarter and St Procopius' Basilica is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

 History and sights .
This includes the old Jewish Quarter and the largely Romanesque St Procopius' Basilica that incorporates some later gothic features, including a rare example of a ten-part or 'botanical' rose window. Such designs reflect the five or ten parts of the roseaceae family flowers and fruit, based on their five sepals and petals or the usual ten segments of their fruit. Botanical rose windows contrast with more complex Gothic windows that contain more segments (usually multiples of traditional gothic units of design - three trefoil, or four quatrefoil), or are based on ancient design inspiration from forerunners of the wheel of life which is now associated with eastern religions, or may alude to the Virgin Mary. 

The famous Basilica originated in the early 12th century as a Benedictine monastery. It was so well endowed that it led to the establishment of a local commercial centre; the city of Trebic. The monastery was rebuilt during the reign of King Wenceslas I (1230-53), and again at the end of the fifteenth century.  During the first half of the 16th century some of Trebic's historic monastic buildings were remodelled as a castle, and later renovated in baroque style. In the early eighteenth century changes were introduced to the basilica by Czech architect, Frantisek Maxmilian Kanka; windows were enlarged, buttresses added, a south-west tower was rebuilt, and a new west front with two towers was constructed in a gothicising baroque style.

The historic town of Trebic, which extends on both sides of the river Jihlava, was declared a Conservation Area in 1990. The Jewish Quarter and St. Procopius Basilica with the castle and gardens, are all included within the Trebic Conservation Area. 

 Culture .

 Festivals .

 Theatre T eb\ED  (Divadeln\ED T eb\ED ) - festival of Amateur theatre;
 \A6amajim  - festival of Jewish culture;
 T eb\ED  potatoes festival (Bramborobran\ED) - folklore festival - music and dance;
 Jubilee Unesco (Oslavy Unesco)	- jubilee celebration of city entrance to the UNESCO list ;
 Theatre 2-3-4 actors (Divadla 2-3-4 herc ) - festival of professional theatre;
 Festival Z\E1most\ED - cultural and music festival ;
 Concentus Moraviae - concerts of classical music;

 People .

born here;
 Patrik Eli\E1\A8, ice hockey player;
 Martin Erat, ice hockey player;
 Pavel Padrnos, professional road racing cyclist;
 Jan Zahradn\ED ek, Czech poet, born in Mastn\EDk, near T eb\ED ;
 Jaroslav Zv  ina, Czech politician;

other residents;
 Leopold L\F6w, Moravia-born rabbi, received his preliminary education at the yeshibot of Trebitsch;
 William Hosking, writer, lecturer;

 Town districts  .
Borovina (526 houses, 5 864 inhabitant);
Bud\EDkovice;
Horka Domky;

External links.
    Municipal website in English;
 www.trebic-mesto.cz - Unofficial pages about T eb\ED  city (cz);
 www.trebic.cz/unesco - UNESCO in T eb\ED  city (cz, de, en, fr);
 www.tradomad.cz - City bus service in T eb\ED  city (cz);
 www.nem-tr.cz - T eb\ED  Hospital (Cz);
 www.zamek-trebic.cz - Vyso ina Museum in T eb\ED  (cz);
 www.kviztrebic.cz - City cultural centre T eb\ED  (cz, en);
 www.knihovnatr.cz - City library T eb\ED  (cz);
 www.unesco-czech.cz - Czech UNESCO (cz) ;
 www.icm-trebic.cz/ - Teenage information center T eb\ED  (cz);
 Basilica of St. Procopius in T eb\ED  (en);
 Jewish Ghetto in T eb\ED  (en);
























ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2939925" title="Ditz von Shaunburg" nonfiltered="221" processed="220" dbindex="450221">
 



Ditz von Shaunburg was a Bavarian nobleman, sentenced to death by beheading in 1336 by King Ludwig for rebelling against him and disturbing the peace of the kingdom. When asked what his last request was, Ditz responded that he wanted his associates who were sentenced to die with him be spared if his headless body walked past them. So the king lined up his associates (8) next him. After the ax fell, the corpse supposedly walked 32 steps, passing all of them. The factual accuracy of this is questionable, however. Thousands were killed by beheading during the French Revolution, and yet this never happened.
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8117288" title="Decorative concrete" nonfiltered="222" processed="221" dbindex="450222">

Decorative concrete involves concrete structures being used in roles that are not strictly related to concretes functional elements.  Concrete has long been prized for its great strength, especially when combined with steel rebar.  Concrete can be used for, among other things, decorative walls, floors and countertops that are both structurally sound but also provide a decorative finish that resembles polished stone and has an extremely low cost for materials.    

 New Concrete .


Countertops.
Concrete's versatility lends ideally to creating rich countertops.  Countertops made of concrete can be formed in a fashion that would be impractical in size and scale if made out of rock like granite or marble.  Height, coloring and textures can be changed fairly easily.  Aesthetic or practical items can be embedded in the concrete such as integral brass rails as pot holders or personal items such as shells, fossils, or mementos of purely sentimental value.  

 Integral Colorants .
Color material is blended with the concrete mix to color the aggregate throughout. Many of the colorants are Iron oxides and can create colors including blacks, yellows, and reds.  Greens can be achieved using Chromium and ultramarine can be used to create variants of blue.  Some of the compounds used to create coloring are heavy metals (including chromium) and can be released during the grinding and polishing of the concrete.  These heavy metals can cause severe respiratory problems and environmental damage.  

 Stamping .
Patterns are impressed into wet concrete slabs or overlays to create textures or the appearance of brick or stone.

 New or Existing Concrete .

 Acid Staining .
Acid staining is not a dyeing process but a chemical process. A mixture of water, salts and acid is applied to the concrete surface and later neutralized by a basic solution, like baking soda and water. This chemical reaction with the existing minerals in the concrete creates new colors on the concrete surface. The thickness of this color change ranges from 1/16th to 1/32nd of an inch. Exterior concrete surfaces may not color as well as interior surfaces because the environment has leached or percolated out the mineral content. Acid stains are sometimes combined with dyes to create different colors.

Typical Steps for Acid Staining:
 Surfaces must be cleaned throughly with a mild detergent.
 A test area is treated first to determine the strength of acid stain required for the desired color. (A weaker solution is tested first and increased in strength until the intended color is obtained.);
 Acid solution applied to surface with acid-resistant paint brushes, mops, rollers or sprayers.
 Solution is allowed to react on the surface for a set amount of time.
 Reaction is stopped with a basic solution and rinsed away with water.
 Surface is dried and then sealed with a wax, polyurethane or epoxy sealer.

Chemicals commonly used:
 Hydrochloric acid;
 Iron chloride;
 Sodium bicarbonate;

 Concrete Dyes .
Solvent based concrete dyes are added to acid staining mixtures to increase the variety of colors.

 Epoxy .
Applied over acid stained and/or overlays to seal and protect. Some epoxies are also colored.

 Overlaying .
A veneer or new concrete is poured over existing concrete to hide pitted or cracked surfaces. Vertical overlays are applied to wall surfaces and stamped with patterns to simulate brick or stone.

 Polishing .
Concrete is polished with grinders and sanding pads of increasing grit (up to 3000) in multiple stages until it has a hard-glassy finish.
Polished Concrete is a practical, decorative & economical floor system for any facility. From showrooms to industrial plants, government buildings to retail facilities, dry-polished concrete is quickly becoming one of the fastest growing phenomena to ever hit the flooring industry. Contrary to other temporary surface chemical processes, Dry-Polished Concrete is a mechanical grinding & polishing process that utilizes industrial diamonds & impregnating hardeners and sealers to level, densify, polish & finally seal the floor from within the interior of the floor surface.
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6813018" title="Turtle (Entourage)" nonfiltered="223" processed="222" dbindex="450223">

Turtle  is a character on the dramedy television series Entourage. He is played by Jerry Ferrara.

Turtle, like Eric, is a childhood friend of Vince's from Queens. Turtle is Vincent's driver and takes care of issues around the house.  He brings street smarts and an urban flavor to the group and is a frequent user of marijuana. Despite his parasitic relationship with Vince, his loyalty and friendship temper his baser qualities, like working with Eric to protect Vince from a vindictive internet journalist.  In season two, Eric's car is stolen by two friends as a means of getting their rap demo tape into the hands of a music producer who has the exact same car.  Loving the music, Turtle gets a track into Queens Boulevard and agrees to manage the promising musician played by real life rapper Saigon.  Saigon received a great deal of interest from several record companies after Vince arranged for Saigon's music to be played by Big Boy on popular L.A. radio station, Power 106.  After Turtle obtained representation for Saigon from Ari, Turtle lost his client when Saigon informed him that a former manager had returned and muscled Turtle out of the picture.

Turtle's real name has not been revealed yet. The Turtle character was based on Mark Wahlberg's real-life assistant, 39-year-old Donnie "Donkey" Carroll.  Donkey carried Wahlberg's bags for more than 14 years while trying to launch a career as a rap musician under the name Murda One.  Donkey died suddenly on December 18, 2005 of an asthma attack.  Donkey and Wahlberg had a falling out earlier in 2005 because Carroll claimed Wahlberg never paid him for appropriating his life story for Entourage. He said all the other real-life characters had been taken care of but that he'd been cut out.

References.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1429577" title="Epithalamus" nonfiltered="224" processed="223" dbindex="450224">

The epithalamus is a dorsal posterior segment of the diencephalon (a segment in the middle of the brain also containing the hypothalamus and the thalamus) which includes the habenula, the stria medullaris and the pineal body. Its function is the connection between the limbic system to other parts of the brain.

Some functions of its components include the secretion of melatonin by the pineal gland, and the regulation of hunger and thirst by the habenula.

Details from Gray's anatomy.
The Epithalamus comprises the trigonum habenul\E6, the pineal body, and the posterior commissure.

Trigonum habenul\E6.
The trigonum habenul\E6 is a small depressed triangular area situated in front of the superior colliculus and on the lateral aspect of the posterior part of the t\E6nia thalami. 

It contains a group of nerve cells termed the ganglion habenul\E6. 

Fibers enter it from the stalk of the pineal body, and others, forming what is termed the habenular commissure, pass across the middle line to the corresponding ganglion of the opposite side. 

Most of its fibers are, however, directed downward and form a bundle, the fasciculus retroflexus of Meynert, which passes medial to the red nucleus, and, after decussating with the corresponding fasciculus of the opposite side, ends in the interpeduncular ganglion.

Pineal body.
The pineal body (corpus pineale; epiphysis) is a small, conical, reddish-gray body which lies in the depression between the superior colliculi. 

It is placed beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum, but is separated from this by the tela chorioidea of the third ventricle, the lower layer of which envelops it. 

It measures about 8 mm. in length, and its base, directed forward, is attached by a stalk or peduncle of white substance. 

The stalk of the pineal body divides anteriorly into two lamin\E6, a dorsal and a ventral, separated from one another by the pineal recess of the third ventricle. 

The ventral lamina is continuous with the posterior commissure; the dorsal lamina is continuous with the habenular commissure and divides into two strands the medullary stri\E6, which run forward, one on either side, along the junction of the medial and upper surfaces of the thalamus to blend in front with the columns of the fornix.

Posterior commissure.
The posterior commissure is a rounded band of white fibers crossing the middle line on the dorsal aspect of the upper end of the cerebral aqueduct. 

Its fibers acquire their medullary sheaths early, but their connections have not been definitely determined. 

Most of them have their origin in a nucleus, the nucleus of the posterior commissure (nucleus of Darkschewitsch), which lies in the central gray substance of the upper end of the cerebral aqueduct, in front of the nucleus of the oculomotor nerve. 

Some are probably derived from the posterior part of the thalamus and from the superior colliculus, while others are believed to be continued downward into the medial longitudinal fasciculus.

 (this section only)

External links.
 University of Idaho;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5941993" title="Mala onda" nonfiltered="225" processed="224" dbindex="450225">

Mala onda is a highly acclaimed novel by Chilean novelist Alberto Fuguet. The novel brought Fuguet to the attention of Latin American and international critics, and is still perhaps the novel most associated with the author. It deals with a short period in the life of Mat\EDas Vicu\F1a, a teenager who is fed up with what he perceives as the homogeneity and idiocy of his family and peers. The protagonist experiences a crisis throughout the course of the novel, somewhat paralleling that of Holden Caulfield, the protagonist of The Catcher in the Rye, a novel which Mala onda often references explicitly. In addition to the theme of the coming of age of a maladjusted youth, the novel relatedly deals heavily with North American consumer culture and the Chilean fetishization of it. The novel is furthermore set against the backdrop of growing opposition to Pinochet's dictatorship. The protagonist, of upper middle-class origins, must come to a political awareness that defies his upbringing.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6872743" title="Contramandatio placiti" nonfiltered="226" processed="225" dbindex="450226">
 
In ancient English law-books, the phrase "contramandatio placiti" signifies a respiting, or giving the defendant more time to answer; or, an imparlance, or countermanding of what was formerly ordered.

References.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2650144" title="Francis Marion National Forest" nonfiltered="227" processed="226" dbindex="450227">

The Francis Marion National Forest is located North of Charleston, South Carolina. It is named for the revolutionary war hero Francis Marion (known to the British as the Swamp Fox). The National Forest is contained entirely in the counties of Charleston and Berkeley. 

 Camp Sites, Rifle Ranges, & Boat Ramps .
Boggy Head Rifle Range;
Buck Hall Boat Ramp;
Buck Hall Camp Site;
Canal Camp Ground;
Elmwood Samp Site;
Guillard Lake Camp Site;
Halfway Creek Camp Site;
Honey Hill Camp Site;
Twin Pond Rifle Range ;

 Ranger Districts .
Santee Ranger District - Was based in McClellanville, South Carolina until it was merged with the Wambaw District.
Wambaw Ranger District - Was based in Awendaw, South Carolina until the headquarters building burned down. After that, the Santee and Wambaw Ranger Districts were merged under the Wambaw Ranger District name, with this new unit now headquartered in McClellanville.
Witherbee Ranger District - is based in Huger, South Carolina.

 Towns & Cities in the Forest .
Awendaw, South Carolina;
Charleston, South Carolina - Is partly in the forest but it provides emergency services to the southeastern portions of the Francis Marion.
Huger, South Carolina;
Jamestown, South Carolina;
McClellanville, South Carolina;

 Trails .
Jericho Horse Trail;
Swamp Fox Hiking Trail;
Wambaw Cycle Trail;

 Wilderiness Areas & Experimental Forests .
Hellhole Bay Wilderiness;
Little Wambaw Swamp Wilderiness;
Santee Experimental Forest;
Wambaw Swamp Wilderiness;
Wambaw Creek Wilderiness;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="981899" title="Buyer decision processes" nonfiltered="228" processed="227" dbindex="450228">
Buyer decision processes are the decision making processes undertaken by consumers in regard to a potential market transaction before, during, and after the purchase of a product or service.

More generally, decision making is the cognitive process of selecting a course of action from among multiple alternatives.  Common examples include shopping, deciding what to eat. Decision making is said to be a psychological construct. This means that although we can never "see" a decision, we can infer from observable behaviour that a decision has been made. Therefore we conclude that a psychological event that we call "decision making" has occurred. It is a construction that imputes commitment to action. That is, based on observable actions, we assume  that people have made a commitment to effect the action.

In general there are three ways of analysing consumer buying decisions. They are:
 Economic models - These models are largely quantitative and are based on the assumptions of rationality and near perfect knowledge. The consumer is seen to maximize their utility. See consumer theory. Game theory can also be used in some circumstances.
 Psychological models - These models concentrate on psychological and cognitive processes such as motivation and need reduction. They are qualitative rather than quantitative and build on sociological factors like cultural influences and family influences.
 Consumer behaviour models - These are practical models used by marketers. They typically blend both economic and psychological models.

Nobel laureate Herbert Simon sees economic decision making as a vain attempt to be rational. He claims (in 1947 and 1957) that if a complete analysis is to be done, a decision will be immensely complex. He also says that peoples' information processing ability is very limited. The assumption of a perfectly rational economic actor is unrealistic. Often we are influenced by emotional and non-rational considerations. When we try to be rational we are at best only partially successful.

Models of buyer decision making.
In an early study of the buyer decision process literature, Frank Nicosia (Nicosia, F. 1966; pp 9-21) identified three types of buyer decision making models. They are the univariate model (He called it the "simple scheme".) in which only one behavioural determinant was allowed in a stimulus-response type of relationship; the multi-variate model (He called it a "reduced form scheme".) in which numerous independent variables were assumed to determine buyer behaviour; and finally the system of equations model (He called it a "structural scheme" or "process scheme".) in which numerous functional relations (either univariate or multi-variate) interact in a complex system of equations. He concluded that only this third type of model is capable of expressing the complexity of buyer decision processes. In chapter 7, Nicosia builds a comprehensive model involving five modules. The encoding module includes determinants like "attributes of the brand", "environmental factors", "consumer's attributes", "attributes of the organization", and "attributes of the message". Other modules in the system include, consumer decoding, search and evaluation, decision, and consumption.

General model.
A general model of the buyer decision process consists of the following steps:
 Want recognition;
 Search of information on products that could satisfy the needs of the buyer;
 Alternative selection;
 Decision-making on buying the product;
 Post-purchase behavior.

There are a range of alternative models, but that of AIUAPR, which most directly links to the steps in the marketing/promotional process is often seen as the most generally useful;AWARENESS - before anything else can happen the potential customers must become aware that the product or service exists. Thus, the first task must be to gain the attention of the target audience. All the different models are, predictably, agreed on this first step. If the audience never hears the message they will not act on it, no matter how powerful it is. INTEREST - but it is not sufficient to grab their attention. The message must interest them and persuade them that the product or service is relevant to their needs. The content of the message(s) must therefore be meaningful and clearly relevant to that target audience's needs, and this is where marketing research can come into its own. UNDERSTANDING - once an interest is established, the prospective customer must be able to appreciate how well the offering may meet his or her needs, again as revealed by the marketing research. This may be no mean achievement where the copywriter has just fifty words, or ten seconds, to convey everything there is to say about it. ATTITUDES - but the message must go even further; to persuade the reader to adopt a sufficiently positive attitude towards the product or service that he or she will purchase it, albeit as a trial. There is no adequate way of describing how this may be achieved. It is simply down to the magic of the copywriters art; based on the strength of the product or service itself. PURCHASE - all the above stages might happen in a few minutes while the reader is considering the advertisement; in the comfort of his or her favourite armchair. The final buying decision, on the other hand, may take place some time later; perhaps weeks later, when the prospective buyer actually tries to find a shop which stocks the product. REPEAT PURCHASE - but in most cases this first purchase is best viewed as just a trial purchase. Only if the experience is a success for the customer will it be turned into repeat purchases. These repeats, not the single purchase which is the focus of most models, are where the vendors focus should be, for these are where the profits are generated. The earlier stages are merely a very necessary prerequisite for this!

This is a very simple model, and as such does apply quite generally. Its lessons are that you cannot obtain repeat purchasing without going through the stages of building awareness and then obtaining trial use; which has to be successful. It is a pattern which applies to all repeat purchase products and services; industrial goods just as much as baked beans. This simple theory is rarely taken any further - to look at the series of transactions which such repeat purchasing implies. The consumer's growing experience over a number of such transactions is often the determining factor in the later - and future - purchases. All the succeeding transactions are, thus, interdependent - and the overall decision-making process may accordingly be much more complex than most models allow for. 

Decision making style.
According to I. B. Myers, a person's decision making process depends to a significant degree on their cognitive style. A study was performed to explore how different cognitive styles affect the decisions of people. Subjects were classified into two different cognitive styles, type A and type B, and were to engage in a task that involved making decisions (Cheng 39). The analysis in Cheng s study shows that type A personalities, with a mean score 6,627, performed significantly better than people with type B personalities, with a mean score of 4,446 in making decisions for this task (56-57). This shows that a person s decision making process depends upon their cognitive style. The relationship between decision style and the behavior of decision makers identifies an individual s decision making style.

Determining Decision Making Style through the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator

Starting from the work of Carl Jung, Myers developed the Myers Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI), a personality test designed to identify a person s preferences using a set of four bi-polar dimensions. The MBTI is tested to be accurate in determining people s personality types. It exceeds 70% accuracy when determining a person s personality dimensions (Gardner 46-50). The eight preferences on these dimensions are: thinking and feeling; extraversion and introversion; judgment and perception; and sensing and intuition. In its basic form, the test consists of a series of forced-choice questions that represent behavioral preferences (e.g., At a party I like to:  tell jokes to others, or  listen to others) and preferred self-descriptive adjectives (e.g.,  daring or  cautious). The results are tabulated to indicate the preferences for each of the four scales, Extroversion-Introversion (EI), Sensing-Intuition (SN), Thinking-Feeling (TF), and Judgment-Perception (JP) (Pittenger 470). A person s personality type helps determine their decision making style.

A person s decision making style is based largely on how they score on the four dimensions of the MBTI.  For example, an experiment by Henderson determined how decision style influenced the likelihood of people adopting children with a perception of risk (381). Different types of people s personalities, received from the MBTI, were tested; SF s (Sensation-Feeling) were most likely to adopt with 70% who saw very little risk, and 58% of ST s (Sensation-Thinking) were least likely to adopt, who saw more of a risk. The amount of risk involved in adoption was influential in different personality decision making; 54% of SF s would adopt at a high risk for complications while only 37% of ST s would adopt (Henderson 382). People with different personalities and cognitive styles make different decisions which can be determined using the MBTI. 

People use all eight personality types of the MBTI, but only one from each of the four basic preferences is generally favored. Someone that scored near the extroversion, sensing, thinking, and judgment end of the dimensions would tend to have a logical, analytical, objective, critical, and empirical decision making style. The combination of these four preferences results in the psychological type (in this example E-S-T-J). Extroversion is the preference that relates to drawing energy from outside oneself in the external world of peers, activities, and things (Kennedy 39). Sensing is the preference for paying attention to information that is perceived directly through the five senses and focusing on what actually exists. Thinking relates to organizing and structuring information to decide in a logical and objective way. Judgment relates to living a planned and organized life (Kennedy 39). How a person scores on the four personality scales determines their decision making style.

Using the MBTI people can predetermine how others will make decisions by determining their personalities. Over three million people a year complete the MBTI and nearly 40% of major corporations use this for team building, hiring and management development (Gardner 45). The MBTI helps many people, including managers and marketers determine employees and buyers personalities and decision making styles to make the best outcome for their business.

Validation Testing of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator

To test the reliability of the MBTI many test-retest procedures have been done. According to Marcia Carlyn, the MBTI has been proven to be accurate by having the same person retake the test after a period of time and end up with the same personality dimensions 70% of the time (465). In 1996 J.A. Wright studied 94 elementary school teachers who were retested six years after they had originally taken the MBTI, 61% of them remained in the same category in all four dimensions. In each category, 83% of E-I types, 89% of S-N types, 90% of T-F types, and 90% of J-P types had no change (Carlyn 467). 

A study of content validity in the MBTI was performed by Bradway in 1964; he tested 28 people who studied Jung s theory (Carlyn 487). The Jungian analysts classified themselves in each category as either an E-I, S-N, and T-F. Then they were given the MBTI and compared their self-typing and the actual MBTI typing; 100% of their own thought and the MBTI agreed on E-I classification, 68% agreed on S-N classification, 61% agreed on the T-F classification, and 43% agreed on all three dimensions (Carlyn 468).

Group Decision Making Process

Group composition creates better decision making skills with different personalities working together. In a study by Volkema, groups were composed on the basis of cognitive style, some groups had one type of dimension from the MBTI (S-J s) and other groups had multiple dimensions (a mix of N-T, N-F, S-J, S-P) (112).  In order to analyze their decision making styles each group was hypothetically placed in a life-threatening situation and had to rank a list of 15 items in order of importance. Each person ranked the items individually and then with their group. Comparing each score with the correct survival ranking score determined how people s decision making was affected in groups. The average group score was 7.6 points better than the average individual score. The average score for groups with multiple personalities was 10.8 points better and for groups with the same personality dimensions was 4.4 points better than individuals (Volkema 114-16). Working in groups with a variety of people composed of multiple personalities and cognitive styles, often produces a better outcome in decision making rather than individually.

Cognitive and personal biases in decision making.
It is generally agreed that biases can creep into our decision making processes, calling into question the correctness of a decision. Below is a list of some of the more common cognitive biases.
 Selective search for evidence - We tend to be willing to gather facts that support certain conclusions but disregard other facts that support different conclusions.
 Premature termination of search for evidence - We tend to accept the first alternative that looks like it might work.
 Conservatism and inertia - Unwillingness to change thought patterns that we have used in the past in the face of new circumstances.
 Experiential limitations - Unwillingness or inability to look beyond the scope of our past experiences; rejection of the unfamiliar.
 Selective perception - We actively screen-out information that we do not think is salient.
 Wishful thinking or optimism - We tend to want to see things in a positive light and this can distort our perception and thinking.
 Recency - We tend to place more attention on more recent information and either ignore or forget more distant information.
 Repetition bias - A willingness to believe what we have been told most often and by the greatest number of different of sources.
 Anchoring - Decisions are unduly influenced by initial information that shapes our view of subsequent information.
 Group think - Peer pressure to conform to the opinions held by the group.
 Source credibility bias - We reject something if we have a bias against the person, organization, or group to which the person belongs: We are inclined to accept a statement by someone we like.
 Incremental decision making and escalating commitment - We look at a decision as a small step in a process and this tends to perpetuate a series of similar decisions. This can be contrasted with zero-based decision making.
 Inconsistency - The unwillingness to apply the same decision criteria in similar situations.
 Attribution asymmetry - We tend to attribute our success to our abilities and talents, but we attribute our failures to bad luck and external factors. We attribute other's success to good luck, and their failures to their mistakes.
 Role fulfilment - We conform to the decision making expectations that others have of someone in our position.
 Underestimating uncertainty and the illusion of control - We tend to underestimate future uncertainty because we tend to believe we have more control over events than we really do.
 Faulty generalizations - In order to simplify an extremely complex world, we tend to group things and people. These simplifying generalizations can bias decision making processes.
 Ascription of causality - We tend to ascribe causation even when the evidence only suggests correlation. Just because birds fly to the equatorial regions when the trees lose their leaves, does not mean that the birds migrate because the trees lose their leaves.

See also.
Cognition;
Group process;

References.
 Carlyn, Marcia.  An Assessment of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator.  Journal of Personality Assessment. 41.5 (1977): 461-73.
Cheng, Many M., Peter F. Luckett, and Axel K. Schulz.  The Effects of Cogntive Style Diversity on Decision-Making Dyads: An Empirical Analysis in the Context of a Complex Task.  Behavioral Research in Accounting. 15 (2003): 39-62.
Gardner, William L., and Mark J. Martinko.  Using the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator to Study Managers: A Literature Review and Research Agenda.  Journal of Mangement. 22.1 (1996): 45-83.
Henderson, John C., and Paul C. Nutt.  Influence of Decision Style on Decision Making Behavior.  Management Science. 26.4 (1980): 371-386.
Kennedy, Bryan R., and Ashely D. Kennedy.  Using the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator in Career Counseling.  Journal of Employment Counseling. 41.1 (2004): 38-44.
 Myers, I. (1962) Introduction to Type: A description of the theory and applications of the Myers-Briggs type indicator, Consulting Psychologists Press, Palo Alto Ca., 1962.
 Nicosia, F. (1966) Consumer Decision Processes, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, 1966.
Pittenger, David J.  The Utility of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator.  Review of Educational Research. 63:4 (1993): 467-488.
 Simon, H. (1947) Administrative behaviour, Macmillan, New York, 1947, (also 2nd edition 1957).
Volkema, Roger J., and Ronald H. Gorman. "The Influence of Cognitive-Based Group Composition on Decision-Making Process and Outcome." Journal of Management Studies. 35.1 (1998): 105-121.








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3245818" title="Yamato Delgado" nonfiltered="229" processed="228" dbindex="450229">
Yamato Delgado, known as Yamato Daiwa (      Daiwa Yamato) in Japan, is the main character in the Battle B-Daman series.

(Note: The name "Yamato Daiwa" is a pun. "Daiwa" is an alternate pronounciation of "Yamato" [  ], the ancient name of Japan.)

Yamato Delgado.


Yamato was raised by cats until the age of 5 which he often mentions and he still acts like a cat at times. In the Japanese versions, he speaks in the Osaka dialect, and mixes his Japanese with meows and purrs, as a result of his upbringing by cats. He uses the B-Daman Cobalt Blade which his mother found with him when he was living with the cats. Later on it is smashed in a B-Dabattle while battling one of the Super Five Field members which turned on him and tried to destroy Cobalt Blade. Afterwards With the help of his friends and Armada they build Yamato a new B-Daman from scratch called Cobalt Saber which was part of Armada's new series of B-Daman.

Yamato is quick to make decisions and sometimes this gets him into trouble. For example when his B-Daman Cobalt Saber was first made he rushed of with it before it was finished. There was one piece that was missing to his B-Daman. He found a piece of Cobalt Blade in his pocket and found out that it was the missing piece to his Cobalt Saber. He attached it to his B-Daman and it was complete. He then stated that a piece of Cobalt Blade would now always be with him.

Yamato's friend Terry McScotty ("Tsubame Tsubakura") was first seen on the very first episode when he helped out Yamato when some bullies were picking on him because he didn't have a B-Daman.

Yamato's friend Bull Borgnine is very strange. He has three egos: a calm sort of clueless side, a more confident mature side, and a reckless side which is present mostly when he is B-Dabattleing. Yamato saved Bull from falling off a mountain twice but Bull didn't remember much of it.

Yamato's friend Gray Michael Vincent was once a member of the Shadow Alliance because they had his sister Liena. They rescued her and she has been traveling with Yamato and his friends since. Gray was also seen on the first episode when he crashed Yamato's birthday cake and challenged him to a B-Dabattle which is when Cobalt Blade first found Yamato.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3337895" title="Fabrosaurus" nonfiltered="230" processed="229" dbindex="450230">


Fabrosaurus (FAB-ro-sawr-us) (IPA /f\E6b os '  s/) meaning "Fabre's lizard" in honor of Jean Henri Fabre (Greek sauros = lizard) was a herbivorous dinosaur of the Early Jurassic (208 - 196 mya). As the only fossil record is a partial jawbone with three teeth, Fabrosaurus is a nomen dubium and may in fact be Lesothosaurus.

Fabrosaurus was around 1 m (3 ft) long and 0.3 m (1 ft) high, weighing approximately 15 kg (38 lb). Little else can be inferred from the small fossil record. It was named after Jean Henri Fabre in 1964, by paleontologist Leonard Ginsburg. The type species, F. australis, is named for the location of the fossils in Lesotho, Southern Africa.

References.
 Ginsburg, L., 1964, "Decouverte d un Scelidosaurien (Dinosaure ornithischien) dans le Trias superior du Basutoland", Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences de Paris, 258; 2366 - 2368;

External links.
Fabrosaurus in The Dinosaur Encyclopaedia at Dino Russ' Lair;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5057342" title="Indi Script Records" nonfiltered="231" processed="230" dbindex="450231">
Indi Script Records is an independent record label founded in 1999 by Mateus Kotok, a singer, songwriter, composer, producer, multi-instrumentalist, and painter born in Ogden, Utah, in 1971. Based in Maui, Hawaii, Kotok has produced music for a wide variety of performers. His first solo album, Indi Script, was released in 2003. His alternative band Mindspice released a self-titled CD in Seattle, Washington, in 1992.



See also.
 List of record labels;

External links.
 Indi Script Records;
 Article from MauiTime Weekly;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7353830" title="Alex Ross (politician)" nonfiltered="232" processed="231" dbindex="450232">
Alex Ross was a stone mason, politician and cabinet minister from Alberta, Canada.

Alex was first elected in the 1917 Alberta election defeating Conservative Thomas Tweedie. He was elected as a Labor member to the assembly. 

In the 1921 Alberta election after Calgary Centre was abolished he ran in the reconstituted Calgary riding and won the top spot in a 5 member block vote. In that election the United Farmers of Alberta defeated the Liberals in the rural part of the province, and formed the government. The United Farmers did not run any candidates in Calgary and Alex was asked to serve as Minister of Public Works despite being a member of the opposition.

Alex was acclaimed in a ministerial by-election on December 9, 1921.

In 1922 Alex Ross helped found the Canadian Labor Party and served on its executive with other prominent labor politicians of the era, such as Elmer Ernest Roper and Alf Farmilo.
1926 election.
Alex served out the rest of his second term as a minister, and his third term for the legislature in the 1926 Alberta general election. He was nominated by the Canadian Labor Party to run in Calgary, however the Calgary Hearld reported that he did not appear to be enthusiastic to run, but would accept his nomination anyways. On voting day, Alex was defeated in the 8th round of vote transfers finishing 8th out of 11 candidates.

External links.
Edmonton Labor Council in Municipal Politics 1903 - 1960;
United Farmers of Alberta: Years of Government, Alberta Heritage;
Who's Who in the provincial election Calgary Herald June 22, 1926;
Alex Ross will run in Calgary, Calgary Herald June 8, 1926;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="36430" title="1370s" nonfiltered="233" processed="232" dbindex="450233">

----
Events and Trends
 Mamai was a powerful military commander of Golden Horde, who resided in the western part of this nomadic state, which is now the Southern Ukrainian Steppes and the Crimean Peninsula. He split apart from Khans of the Golden Horde, trying to establish his own state.

 The Krashovani settled in the Banat, fleeing the Ottoman offensive in Serbia.




































ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="625289" title="Kevin Constantine" nonfiltered="234" processed="233" dbindex="450234">
Kevin Constantine (b. December 27, 1958) has coached hockey teams in the NHL, IHL, and numerous major junior hockey leagues.  He is currently coach of the Everett Silvertips in the WHL.

Record as a coach.
Born in International Falls, Minnesota, Constantine made a name for himself as a head coach in the late 1980s and early 1990s by guiding the Rochester Mustangs of the NAHL and the Kansas City Blades of the IHL to winning records.  Having found success at lower levels, he was hired as head coach of the San Jose Sharks for the 1993-1994 season: under his guidance, the team set an NHL record for largest improvement by finishing 58 points higher in the standings than it had the previous season.  Between 1993 and 2002, Constantine would coach the Sharks, the Pittsburgh Penguins and the New Jersey Devils,  earning a record of 159-153-66.  He is the only coach in NHL history to take two eighth-seeded teams to first-round Stanley Cup playoff upsets (San Jose over the Detroit Red Wings in 1994 and Pittsburgh over New Jersey in 1999).

In 2001, he founded the Pittsburgh Forge, a new entry in the NAHL.  In two seasons as the team's general manager and co-coach, Constantine amassed a record of 80-24-8 -- the Forge won the NAHL regular season championship in 2002.  After the 2002-2003 season, Constantine left Pittsburgh to be hired by the WHL expansion team, the Everett Silvertips.  In their first year, the Silvertips broke the record for best season ever by a first-year team in the major junior hockey leagues (the WHL, OHL and QMJHL), winning the U.S. Division Championship -- they continued to set records, winning three straight playoff rounds to claim the Western Conference Championship and advance to the WHL Final against the Medicine Hat Tigers, where they lost 4-0.

Awards.
Constantine has been the recipient of USA Hockey's Distinguished Achievement Award: USA Hockey is the governing body for amateur ice hockey in the United States, and the award recognizes a U.S. citizen who has made a major contribution to hockey in the United States. 
 
He won the 1991-1992 Commissioner's Trophy.

Constantine also was awarded the Coach of the Year award by the WHL in 2004.


















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3215314" title="Fergus Bowes-Lyon" nonfiltered="235" processed="234" dbindex="450235">
Captain Fergus Bowes-Lyon (April 18, 1889 - September 27, 1915) was a brother of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother.

Just a fortnight after the start of World War I, he married Lady Christian Norah Dawson-Damer, daughter of the 5th Earl of Portarlington. Ten months later, she bore him a daughter, Rosemary Lusia, on 18 July 1915.

In the First World War he served with the 8th Battalion, Black Watch and was killed in the opening stages of the Battle of Loos. Leading an attack on the German lines, his leg was blown off by a barrage of German artillery and he fell back into his sergeant's arms. Bullets struck him in the chest and shoulder and he died on the field. He is commemorated on the Loos Memorial.

His mother, Cecilia Bowes-Lyon, Countess of Strathmore and Kinghorne, was severely affected by the loss of her son, and after his death became an invalid withdrawn from public life until the marriage of her daughter Elizabeth to the future king in 1923.

Fergus's widow married secondly Captain William Frederick Martin and died on 29 March 1959.

Sources.











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3057187" title="Denso" nonfiltered="236" processed="235" dbindex="450236">
 () is a global automotive components manufacturer headquartered in the city of Kariya, Aichi Prefecture, Japan.  Established December 16, 1949 as , DENSO is a member of the Toyota Group companies.  Originally, DENSO was the electrical component manufacturing division of TOYOTA Motor Mfg., segregated during post-WWII reconstruction as the Japanese "war machine" was dismantled.

As of March 31, 2005 DENSO Corporation consisted of 171 subsidiaries (64 in Japan, 33 in The Americas, 31 in Europe and 43 in Asia/Oceania) with a total of 104,183 employees.  In 2006, DENSO was listed at #207 on the Fortune 500 list with a total revenue of US$ 28.2 billion and a profit of US$ 1.5 billion.


Sales.

In 2004, DENSO's global sales were distributed as follows:

 Thermal Systems 34.9%;
 Powertrain Control Systems 22.7% ;
 Electronic Systems 14.8% ;
 Electric Systems 11.4% ;
 Small Motors 7.1%;
 ITS (Intelligent Transportation Systems) 3.6%;
 Industrial Systems, Consumer Products 2.1%;
 Others 2.0%;
 Other Automotive 1.4%;


Medium Duty Starter.

In 2007 Denso introduced a new medium-duty planetary gear reduction starter for three- to seven-litre diesel engines at the Technology and Maintenance Council meetings.

The new PA 90S starter s specifications include: 12V 3.0 kW; weight of 15.5 lbs; pinion 8/10 DP; clockwise rotation; and SAE #1 mount. The new starter is compact and light weight, reducing total vehicle weight. The starter also provides improved torque, maximizing starting power and improving cold weather starting.


Heavy Duty Starter .

In 2007 Denso is expanding the coverage of its R5.0 heavy-duty starter. The company is introducing three new parts numbers for Volvo, Cummins and Detroit Diesel Class 8 engines. Denso now offers full-line coverage of all heavy-duty engines.

The 12V 5.0 Gear Reduction Starter is designed for 10- to 16-litre powerplants. Specifications include: 12V 5.0 kW; 23 lb weight; pinion of DP6 10-tooth and M3 12-tooth (interchangeable with competitive 11 and 12-tooth); clockwise rotation; and SAE #3 mount.

It s a lightweight starter, said Labun, allowing for easy installation while reducing total vehicle weight.

References.


External links.
 DENSO Corporation Japan;
 DENSO Global;
 DENSO Corporation English;













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1753237" title="Manchukuo yuan" nonfiltered="237" processed="236" dbindex="450237">
The Manchukuo yuan ( ) was a unit of currency created by Japanese economists and military thinkers in June 1932. It was part of the economic and conquest plans based on Manchukuo.

The monetary unit was one basic pure silver patron of 23.91 grammes, equivalent to 30 cents (in U.S. dollars) or 1/3 (British shillings and pence) . It replaced the Chinese tael of Haikwan, the local monetary system in common and regular use in Manchuria before the Mukden incident.

Initially it was minted by the Bank of Japan (Japanese central bank), but later was issued in Hsinking (now Changchun) from the Bank of Manchukuo (Manchoukuoan central bank). It became the legal tender, from 1932 to until August 1945.

It was pegged to the Japanese yen at par. It was subdivided into 10 chiao ( ), 100 fen ( ) or 1000 li ( ). Coins were issued in denominations of 5 li up to 10 fen, with banknotes of 5 fen up to 1000 yuan.

In 1944 and 1945, Manchukuo issued coins (1 and 5 fen) made of what the "Standard Catalog of World Coins" describes as "red or brown fiber". These are a rare example of non-metallic coins.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6849664" title="A New Set of Lungs" nonfiltered="238" processed="237" dbindex="450238">


A New Set of Lungs is the 2001 debut EP released by Screamo/Hardcore band Hot Cross on Level Plane, featuring a total of seven tracks. 

Track listing.
"Born on the Cusp"   1:28;
"History Fell on the Heart Broke Open"   1:48;
"Between Minutes and Miles"   2:14;
"Lend Me Your Brain" (I'm Building an Idiot)   2:36;
"Putting the Past Right"   2:10;
"4A:030401"   1:17;
"Finger Redux"   2:46;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="114181" title="Montezuma, Iowa" nonfiltered="239" processed="238" dbindex="450240">
Montezuma is a city in Poweshiek County, Iowa, United States. The population was 1,440 at the 2000 census. It is the county seat of Poweshiek County.

Geography.

Montezuma is located at  (41.584737, -92.525258).

According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 6.4 km\B2 (2.5 mi\B2). 6.3 km\B2 (2.5 mi\B2) of it is land and 0.40% is water.

Demographics.
As of the census of 2000, there were 1,440 people, 601 households, and 390 families residing in the city. The population density was 226.9/km\B2 (586.9/mi\B2). There were 641 housing units at an average density of 101.0/km\B2 (261.3/mi\B2). The racial makeup of the city was 98.75% White, 0.28% African American, 0.07% Native American, 0.35% Asian, and 0.56% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.42% of the population.

There were 601 households out of which 28.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.7% were married couples living together, 7.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.1% were non-families. 31.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 16.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.31 and the average family size was 2.91.

In the city the population was spread out with 23.6% under the age of 18, 8.9% from 18 to 24, 24.3% from 25 to 44, 20.8% from 45 to 64, and 22.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females there were 91.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 83.9 males.

The median income for a household in the city was $35,820, and the median income for a family was $43,083. Males had a median income of $31,483 versus $21,450 for females. The per capita income for the city was $17,806. About 3.8% of families and 6.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 7.8% of those under age 18 and 5.8% of those age 65 or over.

External links.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="420431" title="Dead letter mail" nonfiltered="240" processed="239" dbindex="450241">

Dead Letter is also colloquially applied to any set of instructions, especially a law, that has lost its authority without being formally abollished or repealed.

Dead Letter Mail (also known as a Dead Letter) is mail that cannot be delivered to the addressee or returned to the sender.  This is usually due to lack of compliance with postal regulations, an incomplete address and return address, or the inability to forward the mail when both correpondents move before the letter can be delivered. Largely based on the British model that emerged in the late eighteenth century, many countries developed similar systems for processing undeliverable mail. 
The term 'dead mail' is perhaps a misnomer, and several jurisdictions have opted for the use of the term 'undeliverable mail' as more clearly representing the status of the item whose transmission has been impeded. Being internal departments within postal administrations, little information about the Dead letter office or Undeliverable Mail Office function has ever been made public. A few journal articles and at least one recently published book (Canadian) dealing with this topic have appeared.

Classification as a dead letter is one of the few instances where postal personnel are allowed to open first-class correspondence, ostensibly to search for clues as to the letter's origin or destination.  Countries must also set up regulations for the disposal of dead letters, particularly when they contain items of value.  Surprisingly, some very valuable items have turned up in undeliverable mail, including a stolen painting by Marc Chagall which turned up in a United States Postal Service sorting center in Topeka, Kansas. 

Partly due to the development of computerized mail merge systems, the amount of undeliverable mail is increasing at a fairly high rate as more correspondence is sent out with incomplete or improper addresses.

It is anticipated that with increased collection and study of the postal markings originating from such offices, the body of literature on this obscure topic will grow.  Many countries, including Canada and the United States, have issued special labels for envelopes that have travelled through the dead letter office.  Genuinely used examples are highly prized by collectors, although mint labels, because they have no postage value, are often fairly common.

People interested in postal services throughout the world sometimes deliberately send mail to fictional addresses throughout the world to see if a particular nation's postal authority would return the mail to the sender.  Collectors of postal markings also use this method in order to receive uncommon postal markings seldom seen in everyday mail.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7939792" title="Mary Jackson (Stephen King)" nonfiltered="241" processed="240" dbindex="450242">
Mary Jackson is a fictional character from the alternate Earths in the Stephen King and Richard Bachman Novels Desperation and The Regulators, respectively.

On both worlds, she is the wife of Peter Jackson.

 Death .
As is the case with the majority of the characters of the two novels, Mary Jackson  survives the events of one book but dies in the other.

She narrowly escapes becoming the next vessel of Tak on the Earth in which the events of "Desperation" takes place; however, she falls victim to the Regulators in the other book when she is killed by a shotgun blast to the face.

References.
The Regulators by Richard Bachman;
Desperation by Stephen King;

External links.
;
Notes concerning the book "Desperation.";
Bachman Notes concerning the book "The Regulators.";


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1139679" title="History of Lancashire" nonfiltered="242" processed="241" dbindex="450243">

Lancashire was established as a county in 1182, making it one of the youngest of the historic counties of England, although there is evidence that the boundaries of the county were settled as early as 1100.  In the Domesday Book, its lands had been treated as part of Cheshire (the area south of the River Ribble) and of Yorkshire.  It bordered Cumberland, Westmorland, Yorkshire, and Cheshire.

Lancashire was established soon after the Norman conquest when William the Conqueror gave the land between the Ribble and the Mersey, together with Amounderness, to Roger de Pitou.  In the early 1090s Lonsdale, Cartmel and Furness were added to Roger's estates to facilitate the defence of the area south of Morecambe Bay from Scottish raiding parties, which travelled round the Cumberland coast and across the bay at low water, rather than through the mountainous regions of the Lake District.

The county is traditionally divided into the six hundreds of Amounderness, Blackburn, Leyland, Lonsdale, Salford and West Derby.  Lonsdale was further partitioned into Lonsdale North, which was the detached part north of Morecambe Bay (also known as Furness), and Lonsdale South.

The modern administrative area is now rather smaller than that of the historic county due to a local government reform.

On April 1, 1974 the Furness exclave was given to the new county of Cumbria, the south east being given to Greater Manchester, and the south-west becoming Merseyside.

Warrington and surrounding districts including the villages of Winwick and Croft and Risley and Culcheth were annexed to Cheshire.  A part of the West Riding of Yorkshire near Clitheroe, was transferred to Lancashire also.

In 1998 Blackpool and Blackburn with Darwen became independent of the county as unitary authorities, but remained in Lancashire for ceremonial purposes, as well as for fire and rescue and policing.

See also.
 History of England;
 Friends of Real Lancashire;

External links.
 Lancashire Lantern, The Lancashire Life and Times E-Resource network;
 The Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="937011" title="Valeria Novodvorskaya" nonfiltered="243" processed="242" dbindex="450244">
Valeria Ilyinichna Novodvorskaya (Russian:                               ) (born May 17, 1950, Baranavichy, Belarus) is a Russian politician, dissident, the Creator and the Chairwoman of the "Democratic Union" party. She has been active in the Soviet dissidents movement since her youth, and first imprisoned by the Soviet authorities in 1969 for distributing leaflets that criticized the Soviet invasion in Czechoslovakia (Prague Spring). 

Novodvorskaya holds stongly liberal views, and she is openly critical of Russian government policies. 

Books.
Valeriya Novodvorskaya. Beyond despair. "       ". Moscow. 1993 (Russian) .                       .;

External links.
The Democratic Union;
Opinions on grani.ru (Russian);
Valeria Novodvorskaya's Blog;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="9273032" title="Angus Reid (disambiguation)" nonfiltered="244" processed="243" dbindex="450245">
Angus Reid may refer to:
Angus Reid   Canadian pollster and market researcher.
Angus Reid (Canadian football)   Canadian Football League (CFL) player.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3318140" title="Monica Maughan" nonfiltered="245" processed="244" dbindex="450246">
Monica Maughan is an Australian actor with notable and well-known roles in film, theatre and television.

She launched her professional career at the Union Repertory Theatre Company (URTC) at Melbourne University playing Capulat in Jean Anouilh's romantic comedy Ring Round the Moon in 1957. Her first leading role came that same year in Beauty and the Beast. URTC, Australia's first professional theatre company, became the Melbourne Theatre Company (MTC) in 1968.  Monica Maughan has appeared in more plays for that flagship company than any other actor.

She has worked for every major theatre company in Australia including Chekhov's The Cherry Orchard and Alan Bennett's Habeas Corpus for the Queensland Theatre Company in 1978 and the role of Aggie in A Hard God produced by the State Theatre Company of South Australia in 1981. Perhaps Maughan's best-known stage role was as Miss Prism in the MTC's "The Importance of Being Earnest". The production, co-starring Geoffrey Rush, was so popular that it toured Australia between 1988 and 1992, and was televised by the ABC. In 2003 she starred in Inheritance by Hannie Rayson. Maughan has also directed plays for the MTC.

Early television roles in Crawford's dramas led to ongoing television parts that made Maughan a recognisable face around Australia, including prim secretary Jean Ford in the first year of The Box (1974-75) and downtrodden prisoner Pat O'Connell for five months in women's-prison drama Prisoner in 1979.

Film roles include Strange Bedfellows (2004), Crackerjack (2002) and Road to Nhill (1997), plus a number of films by Dutch-Australian director Paul Cox.

Monica Maughan recently extended her repertoire to include non-dancing roles with the Australian Ballet, including Effie's mother in La Sylphide and Doreen's mother in The Sentimental Bloke.


 References .
References
 Monica Maughan - Stage acting credits;
 "The Importance of Being Earnest" - The Playhouse Theatre, Melbourne (1988);
 "The Importance of Being Earnest" - Drama Theatre, Sydney (1990);
 "The Importance of Being Earnest" - Lyric Theatre, Brisbane (1990);
 "The Importance of Being Earnest" - Comedy Theatre, Melbourne (1991);
 "The Importance of Being Earnest" - Theatre Royal, Sydney (1992);

Monica Maughan's performance photos as "Miss Prism"
 "The Importance of Being Earnest"    , ;



External link.

 ;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2025062" title="Crocodylus" nonfiltered="246" processed="245" dbindex="450247">


Crocodylus is one of three genera from the Crocodylinae subfamily extending from the Crocodylidae family. Within this genus, there are twelve species:
 American Crocodile, Crocodylus acutus ;
 Slender-snouted Crocodile, Crocodylus cataphractus  (Recent DNA studies suggest that this species may actually be more basal than Crocodylus, and belong in its own genus, Mecistops);
 Orinoco Crocodile, Crocodylus intermedius  ;
 Freshwater Crocodile, Crocodylus johnstoni  ;
 Philippine Crocodile, Crocodylus mindorensis  ;
 Morelet's Crocodile or Mexican Crocodile, Crocodylus moreletii  ;
 Nile Crocodile or African Crocodile, Crocodylus niloticus  (the subspecies found in Madagascar is sometimes called the Black Crocodile);
 New Guinea Crocodile, Crocodylus novaeguineae;
 Mugger Crocodile, Marsh Crocodile, or Indian Crocodile, Crocodylus palustris;
 Saltwater Crocodile or Estuarine Crocodile, Crocodylus porosus ;
 Cuban Crocodile, Crocodylus rhombifer  ;
 Siamese Crocodile, Crocodylus siamensis;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1755419" title="Denver Botanic Gardens" nonfiltered="247" processed="246" dbindex="450248">
The Denver Botanic Gardens 23 acres (9.3 hectares) has been recognized as one of the top five botanical gardens in the United States. The Gardens are operated by the City and County of Denver, and are open to the public. 

The main garden is located at 1005 York Street, Denver, Colorado, with satellite gardens at Chatfield 750 acres (3 km\B2) in Littleton, Colorado and Mt. Goliath Alpine Unite (160 acres), as well as the Centennial Gardens 5 acres (20,000 m\B2) also in Denver. 

The Gardens contain more than 10,000 kinds plants from Australia, Africa, and the Himalayas, including more than 1,000 orchid species and 1,200 bromeliad species. Over 13,000 square feet of conservatory space are open to the public.

Specific garden areas include: the Birds and Bees Walk, Boettcher Conservatory, Children s Secret Path, Cloud Forest Tree, Japanese Garden (Alpine House Shofu-en), June's PlantAsia, Mile High Garden, Monet Garden, O Fallon Perennial Walk, Rock Alpine Garden, Romantic Gardens, Scripture Garden, Sacred Earth, Sensory Garden, Water Gardens, and the Water-Smart Garden.

The gardens were featured in the Woody Allen film Sleeper

 See also .
 List of botanical gardens in the United States;
Official Website;
Personal site with photos and area info.;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2099350" title="Shikakai" nonfiltered="248" processed="247" dbindex="450249">

Shikakai is a popular traditional powder shampoo used in India. It is taken from the crushed pods of Acacia Concinna, a small shrub found mainly in the South Asia. Mixed with water it is a popular remedy for dandruff and cleansing of hair.

Acacia Concinna.
Acacia Concinna is a small shrub-like tree which grows in the warm, dry plains of central India. For centuries the people who have had access to this tree have used its pod-like fruit to clean their hair. They collect, dry and grind this pod into a powder which is considered a superior cleanser for lustrous long hair and has been reported as "promoting hair growth and preventing dandruff". Because of these benefits, this powder was named "shikakai" which literally translates as "fruit for the hair".

Today this fruit is grown commercially in large quantities in India and the Far East. As a result, shikakai powder is readily available and continues to be commonly used as a preferred shampoo.Many popular brands are sold throughout India.

Usage.
While it does not have the normal amount of foam that a regular shampoo would have it helps in strengthening the hair from its roots.Typically, shikakai is mixed with water to make a paste which is worked through the hair. It lathers moderately and cleans hair beautifully. It has a natural low pH, is extremely mild, and doesn't strip hair of natural oils. Usually no rinse or conditioner is used since shikakai also acts as a detangler. This ancient product is probably the world's original pH balanced shampoo.

External links.
 Journal for Shikakai;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2606085" title="W?adys?aw Hasior" nonfiltered="249" processed="248" dbindex="450250">
W adys aw Hasior (born May 14, 1928 in Nowy S cz; died July 14, 1999 in Krak\F3w) is a modern Polish sculptor, painter and stage designer connected with Podhale.














ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="213909" title="Barnsley" nonfiltered="250" processed="249" dbindex="450251">




Barnsley is a large town in South Yorkshire, England, lying on the River Dearne, approximately twenty kilometres north of Sheffield. It is between junctions 36 and 37 of the M1 motorway and has a railway station served by the Hallam and Penistone Lines. It is the main town in the metropolitan borough of Barnsley. It has three MPs: Eric Illsley for Barnsley Central, Michael Clapham for Barnsley West and Penistone and Jeff Ennis for Barnsley East and Mexborough. They are all members of the Labour Party. The town itself has a population of just over 72,000 and the borough of around 223,500.

History.

The first historical reference to Barnsley occurs in 1086 in the Domesday Book, in which it is called 'Berneslai' with a total population of around 200. The exact origins of the name Barnsley is still subject to debate, but Barnsley Council claims that its origins lie in the Saxon word Berne, for barn or storehouse, and Lay, for field. Also there is rumour about the founder's being of Danish-Viking origin, and that the founders bloodline is now in Canada with the last name Barnes. In 1249, a Royal Charter was granted to Barnsley permitting it to hold a weekly market and annual fair.
Left undisturbed since the 17th century, Barnsley developed into a stop-off point on the route between Leeds, Wakefield, Sheffield and London. The traffic generated as a result of this location fuelled trade with hostelries and related services also prospering. A principal centre for linen weaving during the 18th and 19th century, Barnsley grew into an important manufacturing town. Barnsley also has a long tradition of glass-making, but is most famous for its coalfields.
George Orwell briefly mentions the town in The Road to Wigan Pier. Orwell spent a number of days in the town living in the houses of the working-class miners while researching for the book. He wrote very critically of the council's expenditure on the construction of Barnsley Town Hall and claimed that the money should have been spent on improving the housing and living conditions of the local miners.

DBC - Danny brown crew,this crew was started in early 2007 to represent the great legend that is danny brown. there are currently around 30 members of the DBC of whos aim is to worship the holy lord of Danny Brown

Industry.
The town is famous for coal mining, although most of the pits were actually in the surrounding villages, rather than in the town itself. The proportion employed in mining varied hugely, even before recent times. The "Barnsley Main" colliery was in the town, but was fairly small; it closed in 1991. All of the mines in the borough are now closed; Goldthorpe was the last to close in 1994. Wire-, linen- and glass-making were also major industries, but only glass-making remains, with two large companies still operating. The coat of arms for the town includes a coal miner and a glass-blower. It is now moving towards a service economy.

The Western half of the Borough stretches from the M1 to the edge of the Peak District and is essentially rural in character. This Western part includes the Market Town of Penistone and some notable and remarkable places of interest, these include:
Wentworth Castle and Gardens (Grade 1 listed gardens)
Cannon Hall Park and Museum
Cawthorne Jubilee Museum
Wortley Hall and Gardens
Wortley Top Forge (16th Century Forge)

In 2002, Barnsley Council and partners launched a major consultation exercise called "Rethinking Barnsley". This led to a regeneration programme centred on Barnsley Town Centre called "Remaking Barnsley" . Developments include a new transport interchange, a new cultural centre in the old Civic Hall, a Digital Media Centre, and new offices and apartments throughout the Town Centre. At the same time, housebuilding has taken off and major new housing areas have been developed. Business Parks on the M1 at Junctions 37 and 36, and in the Dearne Valley, have also expanded the job opportunities locally. Unemployment is now below the national average but a large number of local people are on incapacity benefit. The economic development of Barnsley is led by the Barnsley Development Agency . 

Barnsley's Central Markets and main shopping centre (the Metropolitan Centre) are due to be redeveloped over the next few years, aimed to be complete by 2011.  Meanwhile there are proposals to redevelop part of the Town Hall into a museum and community heritage facility.  This project is called Experience Barnsley

Transport .

Barnsley Interchange is currently being rebuilt and is due for completion in the Spring of 2007. Barnsley has frequent bus links to nearby towns and cities run by Stagecoach Yorkshire and a number of small independent bus companies. The nearest airport is Robin Hood Airport just outside Doncaster, some 15 miles, which can easily be reached from Barnsley by the X19 service. The town also has a number of coach links to London and other major cities run by National Express. Barnsley railway station has two platforms and serves trains run by Northern Rail to Sheffield (2 Slow & 1 Fast Per Hour), Leeds (1 Slow and 1 Fast per hour) which includes Wakefield and Huddersfield (1 Slow per hour). There is also 1 service per day to London operated by Midland Mainline. One service each hour to Sheffield and Leeds is classified as a Fast service. This means it does not stop in outlying stations, it stops only at the larger stations on route. Northern has recently made investment in the service and has introduced newer Class 158 trains which offer passengers better comfort for the journey.

Stagecoach Yorkshire recently purchased the company Yorkshire Traction. Since the purchased the bus company in the town has been in the press in the town recently. It cancelled a number of vital services around the town and surrounding towns, and has left people stranded on a number of occasions. Although it now promises to make investments in new buses, it has not said whether it will re-introduce some of the routes.

Education.
Barnsley had long suffered from poor educational standards compared to the rest of the United Kingdom, but recent improvements in examination results have brought levels in line with the national average. Barnsley College is one the largest further and higher education establishments in Europe and is situated on a number of sites throughout the town centre, chiefly Old Mill Lane Site, Eastgate House, The Sci Tech Centre, Honeywell Site and the Construction centre. The college achieved a place in the top 10 worst colleges from its recent A Level results. The University of Huddersfield has recently opened a campus in the town on Church Street besides Barnsley Town Hall. This is known as the University Centre Barnsley.

Also see List of schools in Yorkshire and the Humber

Buildings, Landmarks and Institutions.
Alhambra Centre;
Barnsley College;
Barnsley Town Hall and Experience Barnsley;
Cannon Hall Museum, Park & Gardens;
Cooper Gallery;
Locke Park;
Oakwell Stadium football ground, home of Barnsley Football Club;
Wentworth Castle & Gardens;



Famous people from Barnsley.
Famous people from Barnsley include:
Obadiah Walker (1616 1699) Academic and Master of University College, Oxford from 1676 to 1688;
Joseph Locke (1805 1860) Notable civil engineer;
Wilf Copping (1909-1980) Footballer - played for England 20 times.
Joanne Harris (1964 present) Author of chocolat;
Joseph Bramah (1748 1814) Inventor of, amongst other things, the flushing water closet, Bramah lock and the beer pump;
Michael Parkinson (1935 present) British talk show host, journalist and television presenter, most famous as presenter of Parkinson;
Brian Glover (1934 1997) Actor;
Harold "Dickie" Bird (1933 present) Retired international cricket umpire;
Mick McCarthy Ex-professional footballer and manager of the football club Wolves. Former manager of Republic of Ireland national team;
Arthur Scargill (1938 present) Leader of the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) 1981 to 2000, current leader of the Socialist Labour Party;
Greg Wilson (1987-present) Up and coming writer and critic, currently about to study abroad in Australia for 5 months. ;
Kate Rusby (1973 present) Folk singer;
Jenni Murray OBE (1950 present) Journalist and broadcaster, current presenter of 'Woman's Hour' on BBC Radio 4;
Charlie Williams (1928 2006) Ex-professional footballer and stand-up comedian;
Stan Richards (1930 2005) Actor, arguably most famous for playing Seth Armstrong in Emmerdale;
John Mayock (1970 present) 1500m runner and member of Team GB;
Tommy Taylor (1932 1958) Professional footballer, one of the 'Busby Babes' (or Manchester United under the management of Sir Matt Busby) who was killed in the Munich air disaster;
Simon Hirst (1976 present) Radio presenter, former host of hit40uk on commercial radio throughout the UK;
Chris Morgan (1977 present) Professional footballer, playing for Sheffield United in the FA Premier League.
Jon Parkin (1981 present) Professional footballer, playing for Hull City in the Championship and nicknamed 'The Beast';
Sam Nixon (1986 present) Came 3rd on Pop Idol 2003. Former Catering student and ex-Holgate School pupil. Had a UK No. 1 hit with Mark Rhodes and their cover of With a Little Help from My Friends, originally performed by The Beatles. He is currently co-hosting Saturday morning BBC2 programme TMi with Mark Rhodes and Caroline Flack.
Ashley Jackson Artist;
Darren Gough (1970 present) Cricketer;
Rita Britton Fashion Designer/Retailer;
Arctic Monkeys Band - Two members attended Barnsley College;
Rory McCoole Designer - Currently big in Europe but rumored to be returning to Barnsley in the near future;
David Bradley (also known as Dai Bradley) Actor who played Billy Casper in Ken Loach's film Kes;
Shaun Dooley Actor;
Kenny Doughty Actor;
David Hirst Former England international footballer who famously played for Sheffield Wednesday;
Bring Me The Horizon Part of the band come from this town.
Ian McMillan (1956-present) The Bard of Barnsley;
Davey Lawrence (1985-present) Ice Hockey Netminder playing for the Sheffield Steelers;
Graham Ibbeson Sculptor, artist, responsile for statue outside NUM head office, Barnsley and Eric Morecambe statue, Morecambe;
Saxon Famous Heavy metal band which formed in, and has members from Barnsley. Hits include '747 (strangers in the night' and 'Wheels of steel');

Culture.
Barnsley is home to a proud tradition of brass bands, originally created as social clubs for the mining communities. Grimethorpe Colliery Band, located in a village 5 miles to the east of Barnsley, is perhaps the best brass band in Britain. It rose to fame in the film Brassed Off and is now the 'artist in residence' at the Royal College of Music, London. The band has performed in Hyde Park during the Last Night of the Proms.

The 'Bard of Barnsley' Ian McMillan writes in local dialect, was recently nominated for a chair of poetry at Oxford University, and often appears on Radio 4.

Ken Loach's film Kes was set and filmed in Barnsley, using local actors such as Freddie Fletcher.

There is a live rock music scene, which reached its height in the Britpop years, around 1997, due to its proximity to Sheffield and Manchester. Barnsley rock band Saxon were famous in the 1980s.  Two of the Arctic Monkeys studied music at Barnsley College.

Barnsley Council operates three museums, Cannon Hall, the Cooper Gallery and Worsbrough Mill.  There are plans for a fourth museum located within the town hall.  The project to create this is known as Experience Barnsley.  Other museums in Barnsley include the volunteer-run Darfield Museum and the Cawthorne Victoria Jubilee Museum.  Other heritage sites include Wortley Top Forge, Wortley Hall, Wentworth Castle and Monk Bretton Priory.

The Lamproom Theatre has three theatrical companies, and gives performances ranging from West End musicals to Shakespeare. Its Youth Company presents up to three productions a year and recently performed a critically acclaimed production of 'Les Miserables: School Edition' in November 2005 which was greeted by standing ovations on each performance.  The once celebrated Victorian theatre the 'Civic' has lapsed from its previous role as the cultural centre of the town and is now being developed into gallery space.

Barnsley has two twin towns:





Sport.
Barnsley F.C. football team play in the Championship of the English league. They play at the Oakwell Stadium just outside of the town centre. The club has had a mixed recent history. In the late 1990s they had a brief spell in the Premier League, but were relegated after just one season. Subsequent seasons saw them relegated to the third tier of English football. After 4 seasons, Barnsley finally regained their place in the Championship after beating Swansea City 4-3 on penalties in the play off final in Cardiff.

Politics.
The municipal council elect the mayor every year. In the day of the election, a parade takes place in front of the Town Hall. The parade is in honour of the new mayor.

External links.

Barnsley Links - Portal to over 1100 Barnsley-related websites;
Barnsley Soundbites - Barnsley's alternative music scene;
Barnsley Life - An informative & humorous  overview of life in Barnsley;
Barnsley Bubble - local town guide;
Experience Barnsley;
Barnsley Photos - link to Barnsley Photographic website;
Barnsley Metropolitan Borough Council;
Barnsley Chronicle;
Barnsley Metrodome;
Barnsley Lamproom theatre;
Radio Barnsley;
Barnsley Community Radio;
Barnsley Hospital Broadcasting;
Barnsley Development Agency;
Vital Barnsley Site;











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7636465" title="DeSisto School" nonfiltered="251" processed="250" dbindex="450252">
The DeSisto School may refer to either the DeSisto at Stockbridge School, or the DeSisto at Howey School,  founded by Michael DeSisto.


History.
Beginnings.
DeSisto at Stockbridge School was founded in 1978. It was conceived of as a therapeutic boarding school for teens who had problems in traditional school settings. It was created on the campus of the old Stockbridge School in the Berkshires region of Massachusetts, near Tanglewood and the Stockbridge Bowl. 

In 1980 DeSisto opened a second campus in Howey-in-the-Hills Florida named the DeSisto at Howey School. DeSisto originally envisioned a string of schools nationally and internationally based on the principles of Gestalt Psychology, and his own therapeutic model. The DeSisto School would develop a reputation as the place that celebrities, the rich, and political elites could send their children who had difficulty living at home, and functioning in traditional secondary school environments.

Controversies.
Quite early on, it would have problems from the state Department of Education which withdrew its accreditation after questions arose about the school's treatment of "special needs" students. The school sued in 1983, and won back its accreditation.

In 1986, the DeSisto School received national attention with the case of Heather Burdick, from Old Bridge, New Jersey, who was sent to the Stockbridge campus, and ran away from the school after only a few weeks. A group of parents from Burdick's hometown sought to sue The DeSisto School for illegally detaining Heather, but the action failed. The DeSisto School subsequently successfully counter-sued, and after $550,000 in legal expenses was awarded $41,000 for damages. 

The DeSisto at Howey School was not without its problems either. The DeSisto School sued Howey-in-the-Hills over zoning issues related to the incipient DeSisto College. The town of Howey-in-the-Hills was awarded $203,279.27 in attorney fees and $17,194.12 in costs. The case of DeSisto College, Inc. v. Town of Howey-in-the-Hills, 718 F.Supp. 906 (M.D.Fla. 1989), is often cited and used as a case study where the plaintiff's claim is frivolous because it has no basis in law, the plaintiff rejects any reasonable offer to settle, the trial court dismisses the case without trial, and the plaintiff does not offer any novel legal theories. On November 15, 1988 The Boston Globe reported that Michael DeSisto and The DeSisto School had been sued 23 times for breach of contract and fraud.

Author Roger Kahn, in the last chapter of his book Into My Own (2006), describes the negative experiences he had with DeSisto and the school's family therapy workshops he attended in 1979 with his son, who committed suicide in 1987.

Demise.

The DeSisto at Howey School closed in 1988, due to declining enrollment, and legal problems with the local government.
Following a long legal fight with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts over licensing, allegations of child abuse, a Commonwealth imposed enrollment freeze, and accusations of failing to create a safe environment for its students, the DeSisto at Stockbridge School chose to voluntarily close in June 2004. 

The DeSisto at Stockbridge School was renamed The Cold Spring Academy, and opened a campus in Sarasota, Florida. The Cold Spring Academy permanently closed in 2005.

Noteworthy Alumni.
David Safavian Former G.W. Bush administration official;
Kathryn Erbe American television and film actress;
Anthony Papp Jewelry Designer;

External links.
DeSisto News Links;
Desisto school closes;
'School for troubled teens to close in Massachusetts';
'Serious Risks' Cited at School for Teens;
Getting that 'DeSisto Glow' Time Nov. 26, 1979;
Uphill All the Way(2000) DeSisto School bike trip documentary;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4888184" title="Jennifer Jostyn" nonfiltered="252" processed="251" dbindex="450253">
Jennifer Jostyn is an American actress who was born in Boston, Massachusetts.

Jostyn attended Walnut Hill School for the Performing Arts. She has appeared in many movies since the early 1990's, including House of 1000 Corpses, The Brothers McMullen, Milo, Omega Cop, Focus, Dr. Benny, A Perfect Little Man, and The Life Coach, a movie she also wrote and produced. Additionally Jostyn has had various guest starring roles on television, including ER, The Drew Carey Show, Gilmore Girls, and Come to Papa. Part of her career has entailed doing work in commercials, one of the most notable of which was her role of dancing in Madonna's 1989 Like a Prayer Pepsi commercial.

External links. 
 IMDB: Jennifer Jostyn at the Internet Movie Database;
 The Life Coach: Filmmaker Bios;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2100573" title="Mike Mangini" nonfiltered="253" processed="252" dbindex="450254">


Michael Mangini (born April 18, 1963 in Newton, Massachusetts, USA) is a celebrated drummer who has played for Annihilator, Extreme, Steve Vai, Tribe Of Judah, and more recently, James LaBrie.  

 Biography .

Mangini began playing the drums at five and by practicing six to ten hours a day, he was already mimicking Buddy Rich performances by the time he was nine.  By high school, he was a noted young musician; performing in school bands while participating in the prestigious All-County, All-State, and all Eastern United States ensembles.

After graduating from high school in 1981 and with the encouragement of his parents, Mangini put aside his music studies to pursue a Computer Science major at the nearby Bentley College.  Later on, he would find himself programming software for the Patriot Missile program while working on a program that studied the links between the human brain and body.  These experiences would be integral in the development of his Rhythm Knowledge learning systems. 

In 1987, Mangini scored one of his first 'high-profile' gigs - playing drums for the Rick Berlin Band in Boston, where he worked with bassist Phillip Bynoe (who would later go on to work with Mike in sessions for Journey's Steve Perry and more notably during Mike's time in the Steve Vai band).  He also taught drums privately in Boston during this time.

In 1991, Mangini began working thrash metal band Annihilator; performing drums on several tracks for the studio album, Set the World on Fire.  He went on to tour with the band in support of this album up until 1994, when he was asked to play with the band Extreme.  Mike Mangini had been friends with noted Extreme guitarist Nuno Bettencourt since the 1980s.  His time in Extreme included recording several tracks for their 1995 effort, Waiting For The Punchline, along with subsequent touring.  During this time, he also made an appearance with the band on The Late Show with David Letterman. 

After Extreme dissolved in 1996, Mike was informed through Jeff Campitelli (drummer for Joe Satriani) that guitarist Steve Vai was auditioning drummers for his live band.  Mike successfully auditioned for Steve Vai's band and relocated to Los Angeles.

From late 1996 to early 2000, Mangini was the highly regarded drummer of Vai's live ensemble, which also included bassist Phillip Bynoe, guitar wizard Mike Keneally and (in 2000) guitarist Dave Weiner.  Mike also cut several drum tracks for Steve's Fire Garden and Ultrazone albums.   

Following the initial suspension of the South American leg of the Ultrazone Tour in 2000, Mangini relocated back home to Boston and began teaching at the Berklee College of Music as an associate professor.  He began working with former Extreme frontman Gary Cherone and bassist Pat Badger in the short-lived band, Tribe of Judah.  He also continued to work with Dale Bozzio (formerly of the new wave band, Missing Persons), and cut several more records.  Among them were a Rush tribute record (entitled "Subdivisions") and a second full-length album with Annihilator.  He also recorded tracks for artists Sal DiFusco, Bill Lonero and Chris Emerson.        

In 2005, he accepted a full-time teaching position at the Berklee College of Music and is today a prominent faculty member in the school's percussion department.

 Notes .

Mangini is notorious for his technical prowess and currently holds three out of four World's Fastest Drummer titles.  These include the Fastest Matched grip at 1,247 strokes in 60 seconds, Fastest Hands, which he earned by executing 1,203 single-stroke notes in 60 seconds, and Fastest Traditional Grip which he earned by executing 1,126 strokes in 60 seconds.

Mangini has written two books about his drumming techniques. These books, titled Rhythm Knowledge, are a practice method for deconstructing and simplifying complex polyrhythms and time signatures.

Mike plays Pearl drums, Zildjian cymbals and Remo drumheads.

External links.
 Official website;
 Official Rhythm Knowledge website;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8207521" title="Belo Monte" nonfiltered="254" processed="253" dbindex="450255">

Belo Monte is a  municipality located in the western of the Brazilian state of Alagoas. Its population is 6,669 (2005) and its area is 334 km\B2.

References.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1173818" title="The Interim government of the Islamic Republic" nonfiltered="255" processed="254" dbindex="450256">


The Interim government of the Islamic Republic of Iran (September 21, 1981   October 29, 1981) was established after assassination of Mohammad Ali Rajai (President) and Mohammad Javad Bahonar Prime Minister on August 30. In accordance with the constitution, a Provisional Presidential Council formed on August 30 and proposed Mohammad Reza Mahdavi-Kani as Prime Minister to the Majlis. Majlis voted in favour of him on September 2. His cabinet also get approval of the Majlis on September 3. The main responsibility of this government was holding presidential election. On October 13, Ali Khamenei officially became president. His Prime Minister, Mir-Hossein Mousavi got Majlis's approval on October 29 (after Majlis' negative vote to Khamenei's first candidate, Ali Akbar Velayati) and then new government replaced Interim Government of Mahdavi-Kani.

See also.
 Interim Government of Iran, 1979;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1885878" title="Grass pink" nonfiltered="256" processed="255" dbindex="450257">


Grass pinks (genus Calopogon) are a group of terrestrial orchids (family Orchidaceae). The generic name is from Greek and means "beautiful beard", referring to the cluster of hairs adorning the labellum. The genus is mainly confined to the United States, with 5 species found in the southeastern U.S., but only one north into Wisconsin and parts of Ontario.

The genera Cathea Salisb. and Helleborine Kuntze have been brought into synonymy with Calopogon.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="641783" title="Bread clip" nonfiltered="257" processed="256" dbindex="450258">
A bread clip is a device used to hold plastic bags (such as the ones presliced bread is commonly packaged in) closed. They are also commonly called bread tags or bread-bag clips. By sealing a bag more securely than tying or folding over its open end, the clip may preserve its contents longer. Sometimes the colour of the tag indicates the day on which it was baked.

There are two different types of bread clips - a more common one-piece plastic clip, and a more complex mechanical clip. One particular design of bread clip is the subject of a patent in the USA.

Simple bread clips.


Most designs of bread clip consist of a single plastic part through which the neck of a plastic bag can be threaded. Because these bread clips are cheap, ubiquitous, and come in a variety of shapes and colors, some people collect them.

Because this type of bread clip is small and comes attached to food packages, it is sometimes swallowed accidentally by the elderly, which can cause perforation or blockage of the gastrointestinal tract.

In Canada, milk is often sold by the bag; the most common format is three 1.3-liter sealed bags packaged in a surrounding bag. This larger bag is closed by a clip identical to a bread clip, and imprinted with the milk's expected expiry date.

One activity involving bread clips is flicking them. This is done by breaking the bread clip along the line of symmetry by repeated folding, placing the hook-like projection of the clip under the fingernail of the index finger while keeping the clip horizontal (under the presumption that the nail is vertical), pressing the clip into the fingertip to make it stay, placing the thumb on top of the finger, and flicking.

Mechanical bread clips.


A more complex bread clip design involves two articulated plastic parts mounted on a pivot with a spring between them to provide tension.

Alternatives to bread clips.
There are several alternatives to bread clips, including:
 Twist ties;
 Sealing the end of the bag by heat-crimping.
 A small piece of plastic heat-crimped around the end of the bag.
 A strip of Adhesive tape.
 Tying off the bag.

History.
The bread clip was invented by Floyd Paxton and manufactured by the Kwik Lok Corporation based in Yakima, Washington with manufacturing plants in Yakima and New Haven, Indiana.

Consumers required packages that can be easily opened and re-closed with ease and packagers wanted a better bag closure method. The bread clip was developed in the early 1950s because there was a growing need to close plastic bags on the packaging line very efficiently. Manufactures using more and more automation in the manufacture and packaging of food needed methods to allow them to raise production volumes and reduce costs. At the same time a hurried (or lazy) population of consumers wanted a fast and easy way to open and effectively seal food bags (originally bread hence the name.) The simple bread clip allowed for that. In addition re-closability became a selling point as smaller families and higher costs slowed consumption, leading to a potential for higher rates of spoilage.

External links.
 Kwik Lok Corp.;
 A collector of bread clips;
 World record collection;
 A review of scientific studies of the effects of ingestion of bread clips by the elderly;
 Bread Clips!;
 The Impact of Northwest Farms;
 PB TMS Makes International Shipping a Snap for this Washington State Family Enterprise;
 Bread clip art;
 Australian Bread tag/clip artist;

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="663585" title="Green Grow the Rushes, O" nonfiltered="258" processed="257" dbindex="450259">
Green Grow the Rushes, O (aka The Twelve Prophet or The Carol of the Twelve Numbers or The Teaching Song ), is a folk song popular in England, Scotland, and Wales. The song is extremely old, first recorded in Hebrew in the 16th century and probably much older than that; at the present, it is sometimes sung as a Christmas carol. The song is not to be confused with Robert Burns' Green Grow the Rashes, O, with which it shares only the title. It is cumulative in structure, with each verse built up from the previous verse by appending a new stanza. The first verse is:

I'll sing you one, O;
Green grow the rushes, O;
What is your one, O?;
One is one and all alone;
And evermore shall be (it) so.;

The twelfth is:

I'll sing you twelve, O;
Green grow the rushes, O;
What are your twelve, O?;
Twelve for the twelve Apostles,;
Eleven for the eleven who went to heaven,;
Ten for the ten commandments,;
Nine for the nine bright shiners,;
Eight for the April rainers, (or April showerers, or occasionally Eight for the eight bold rangers,);
Seven for the seven stars in the sky,;
Six for the six proud walkers,;
Five for the symbols at your door,;
Four for the Gospel makers,;
Three, three, the rivals,;
Two, two, lily-white boys,;
Cloth\E8d all in green, O;
One is one and all alone (sometimes One is one and one alone or One is one and stands alone);
And evermore shall be (it) so.;

The lyrics of the song are in many places extremely obscure, and present an unusual mixture of Christian catechesis, astronomical mnemonics, and what may very well be pagan cosmology. The song's origins are uncertain, but the first recorded instance of it is in Hebrew; it may have originated in the intricacies of medieval Jewish thought, although the Kabbalistic mystics were seldom interested in composing songs. A parallel may also be drawn with the Jewish Passover song "echad mi yodeia" (Who knows 1?), where e. g. 5 represents the books of the Pentateuch, 2 represents the luchot habrit (the stone tablets on which the 10 commandments are said to have been written), and one represents "our Lord, our Lord, our Lord who is in the heavens and the earth".  

"Green grow the rushes, O" sounds sufficiently out of place that one is inclined to ascribe it to the same origin as "Fine flowers in the valley" in one version of the ballad The Cruel Mother, namely, an attempt to turn a misremembered line of Gaelic into something that it sounds like in English. However, the song did not originate in the British Isles; thus, the line must have been included for a conscious reason, or been the product of an earlier disruption.

 Twelve is almost certainly the twelve apostles of Jesus, although the number has other meanings; it may originally have referred to the months of the year, for example.
 The eleven are the eleven Apostles who remained faithful (minus Judas Iscariot), or possibly St. Ursula and her companions.
 Ten are, fairly obviously, the ten commandments given to Moses.
 The nine may be an astronomical reference, although counting the sun, moon and planets known before 1781 yields at most 8, not 9. It could potentially refer to the nine orders (or 'choirs') of angels.
 The April rainers refer to the Hyades star cluster, called the "rainy Hyades" in classical times, and rising with the sun in April; the Greeks thought of them as inaugurating the April rains. "Eight bold rangers" is a very recent corruption, most likely the unfortunate consequence of singers with more knowledge of Tolkien than Greece.
 The seven are probably the Seven Sisters, the Pleiades star cluster, or perhaps Ursa Major, the Big Dipper. They may also be the planets or other stars.  Alternatively, the seven stars are those referred to in Revelation chapter 1.  They are first cited in verse 16 as being held in the right hand of Christ and then explained as referring to seven angels of the seven early Christian churches.
 The six seems to be a historical reference, but remains obscure. It is possible that they were members of a Saxon warband who beat the bounds of their fortified camp in a traditional way between A.D. 450 and A.D. 1066. Perhaps it is a Biblical reference to Ezekiel 9:2 - six men with swords come in a vision of the prophet to slaughter the people, whose leaders (8:16) have committed such sins as turning East to worship the Sun, and "have filled the land with violence." It may also be a corruption of "waters," but what "the six bold waters" might refer to remains unanswered.
 "Five for the symbols at your door" probably refers to the practice of putting a pentagram at the door of a house to ward off witches and evil spirits; this was relatively common in the late Middle Ages and the Early Modern period, and is alluded to in no shortage of literary works from or set in those eras. It can also refer to the five books of Moses - the pentateuch. An alternative interpretation is given by John Timpson in his book Timpson's England, where he states that it refers to five symbols displayed above the doorways of houses that would shelter Catholic priests. He gives an example a house where these can still be seen.
 Four refers to the four Evangelists, Mathew, Mark, Luke and John.
 Some have suggested that "the three" are the Trinity, but this leaves "the rivals" unexplained. The I Ching contains the interesting proverb that "when three meet together, doubts arise among them," although it probably has no bearing on the interpretation of this song. The three could also refer to the 3 major religious traditions of Islam, Judaism and Christianity. "The three" could also refer to the synoptic gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke, alluding to the previous line. These three give similar though slightly different accounts of the life of Christ. Or the "three rivals" could be Peter, James and John who are often mentioned together in the Gospels and at one time: "A dispute also arose among them as to which of them was considered to be greatest." (Luke 22:24). ;
Some suggest the three are three similar and adjacent mountains in Wales.
 The two remain obscure. Jesus and John the Baptist have been suggested. Possibly they are the holly and the ivy (although the holly berry is red, the ivy berry is black), both have white wood and are evergreen. Pagan tradition also has the holly and the ivy as male and female, so they are not both 'boys'. Possibly they are holly and mistletoe (white berries with green branches) which would align more closely with the tradition of the  defeat at yule of the holly king by the oak king (mistletoe 'traditionally' grows on oak trees, although it will grow on other types of tree). Robert Graves suggested that they are the Holly King and Oak King. There is some suggestion that the two may be the Old and New Testaments, perhaps referring to some mediaeval tradition, although "clad all in green" strongly suggests that the two boys were in some way connected with the growth of plants.
 Another explanation is that the statues of St John and Our Lady which in Christian Churches flank the Crucifix on the Altar reredos or the Rood screen were, during Holy Week, bound round with rushes to cover them.  (During Holy Week, from Palm Sunday until Easter Day all statues, crosses, crucifixes etc are traditionally covered up from view or removed and no flowers are in the Church). The two figures were portrayed in similar garments, hence the 'lily-white boys' and wrapped in rushes they were 'dressed up all in green'.
 One would suppose that the "One" of the last line would be God, but God in the Middle Ages was more commonly thought of as the Trinity, and "one is one and one alone," if applied to God, sounds more like Jewish or Muslim theology than Christian in its strong insistence on the Divine unity.

Media.

Alternate titles.

 Children Go Where I Send Thee;
 I'll Sing You One Oh;
 The Carol Of The Twelve Numbers;
 The Twelve Apostles;
 The Dilly Song;
 The Dilly Carol;
 The Counting Song;

Related works.

The song 'The Ten Commandments' by Figgy Duff on the CD Music:After The Tempest is a variant of this song that that does not include the eleventh and twelfth symbols.

There is also a song titled "Green Grow the Rushes" on the album Fables of the Reconstruction by the band R.E.M., which refers to and is partially based upon this song.

A filk song titled "High Fly the Nazgul-O!" uses the same tune but the lyrics have been changed to refer to The Lord of the Rings.

The late comedian Kenneth Williams sang a parody called "Green Grow My Nadgers, O" on the Round the Horne radio comedy programme.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3533226" title="American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us" nonfiltered="259" processed="258" dbindex="450260">

American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us is a book by investigative journalist Steven Emerson.

Description.

In this book the author aims to document the clandestine activities of Islamic terrorist groups such as Hamas in the United States.
 
Emerson seeks to explain the ideological motives of the global Islamic Jihad movements and he contends that their efforts are aimed at exploiting the freedoms prevalent in the West and the United States to infiltrate and develop various terrorist recruiting and financing networks and set the foundations for the destruction of the West.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4102412" title="Juan Camilo Novoa" nonfiltered="260" processed="259" dbindex="450261">
Juan Camilo Novoa Aguinaga (born October 5, 1981) is a boxer from Colombia, who participated in the 2004 Summer Olympics for his native country. There he was stopped in the quarterfinals of the Welterweight (69 kg) division by Korea's Kim Jung Joo.










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5564076" title="Vicci Martinez" nonfiltered="261" processed="260" dbindex="450262">


The singer/songwriter Vicci Martinez is an entertainer. A native of Tacoma, WA, the young performer first hit the stage at the age of 16.

Vicci Martinez sings and plays guitar. Vicci is an acoustic-rock artist with a passionate voice, profound lyrics and good live performances. Vicci has a strong following and has received critical acclaim with her live performances.

After the 2005 release of her 4th album, On My Way, Vicci has been touring the region non-stop, selling out the prestigious Triple Door in Seattle, WA and opening for Sting and Annie Lennox at the White River Amphiteatre. 2006 saw the release of Vicci Martinez Live, a produced concert DVD produced by Joel Veatch and Flying Spot Entertainment. 

Vicci Martinez has appeared on CBS-TV's nationally syndicated Star Search and winning the regional tryouts for American Idol in 2000 at the age of 16 (she declined the invite to LA and Idol's restrictive contract). She is pursuing success on her own terms. Vicci has opened for, or shared the stage with, Sting, Annie Lennox, Bill Frisell, Christopher Cross, Supersuckers, Jonny Lang, The Presidents Of The United States Of America, Cherry Poppin Daddies, Avril Lavigne, The Paperboys, Roomful Of Blues, Walter Trout, Tab Benoit, Carrie Akre, Alvin Youngblood Hart, Caroline Aiken, The Radiators, Jerry Cantrell, Billy Duffy, Eddie Spaghetti, Kristin Hoffman, John Corabi, Laura Love, Brandi Carlisle, Jam Camp and many more.

The Vicci Martinez Band.

 Vicci Martinez - voice & acoustic guitar;
 Rod Cook - lead guitar & backing vocal;
 Jeff Leonard - bass;
 Darin Watkins - drums;

Partial Discography.
 Vicci Martinez Live (video DVD, 2006, Flying Spot Entertainment);
 On My Way (audio CD, 2005, self-released);
 Sleep to Dream (audio CD, 2003, Rainstorm);

External links.
 Vicci Martinez Website;
 Flying Spot Entertainment;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1325397" title="List of Asia-related topics - C" nonfiltered="262" processed="261" dbindex="450263">

Ca.
Cad-Cal.
 Cadre System - China;
 Cagayan River;
 Calcutta;
 Calendars - East Asia;
 Calendars - South Asia;
 Calendars - Southeast Asia;
 Calendars - West Asia;
 Calicut;
 Calligraphy - China;
 Calligraphy - Japan;
 Calligraphy - Korea;
Cam-Car.
 Cam Ranh Bay;
 Cambodia - Profile;
 Cambodia - Civil War of 1970-1975;
 Cambodia - Economic System;
 Cambodia - Education System;
 Cambodia - History;
 Cambodia - History - Timeline;
 Cambodia - Political System;
 Cambodia-Laos Relations;
 Cambodia-Vietnam Relations;
 Cambodian People's Party;
 Camel, Arvana Dromedary;
 Camel, Bactrian;
 Cameron Highlands;
 Candi of Java;
 Canning, Charles John;
 Cao Dai;
 Cao Xueqin;
 Cappadocia;
 Caraballo Mountains;
 Caravans;
 Cardamon Mountains;
 Carpets - Central Asia;

Cas-Cau.
 Cashmere Industry;
 Caspian Sea;
 Caste;
 Cathaya Tree;
 Catholicism, Roman - Philippines;
 Catholicism, Roman - Vietnam;
 Caucasia;
Ce.
 Cebu City;
 Cebu Island;
 Cebu Province;
 Celebes Sea;
 Central Asia - Early Medieval Period;
 Central Asia - Human Rights;
 Central Asia - Late Medieval and Early Modern;
 Central Asia - Modern;
 Central Asia, Modern - Timeline;
 Central Asia-China Relations;
 Central Asia-Russia Relations;
 Central Asian Languages;
 Central Asian Regionalism;
 Central Highlands of Vietnam;
 Ceramics - Japan;
 Ceramics - Korea;

Ch.
Cha-Che.
 Chaebol;
 Chagang Province;
 Chagatay;
 Chagos Archipelago;
 Chajon Nori;
 Chandigarh;
 Chang Fee Ming;
 Chang River;
 Chao Anou;
 Chao Phraya River and Delta;
 Chart Thai;
 Chatterjee, Bankim Chandra;
 Chaudhuri, Nirad Chandra;
 Chavalit, Yongchaiyudh;
 Cheju Province;
 Chen Duxiu;
 Chen Kaige;
 Chen Shui-bian;
 Chen Yun;
 Chenab River;
 Chengde;
 Chengdu;
 Chera;
Chh.
 Chhattisgarh;
Chi.
Chia-Chil.
 Chiang Kai-shek;
 Chiang Mai;
 Chiba;
 Chicken;
 Children's Day - Japan;
 Children's Day - Turkey;
 Chilung;

Chin.
 Chin;
 Chin State;
 China - Profile;
 China - Economic System;
 China - Education System;
 China - Human Rights;
 China - Internal Migration;
 China - Political System;
 China - Population Resettlement;
 China-India Relations;
 China-Japan Peace and Friendship Treaty;
 China-Japan Relations;
 China-Korea Relations;
 China-Russia Relations;
 China-Taiwan Relations;
 China-United States Relations;
 China-Vietnam Relations;
 Chinese Civil War of 1945-1949;
 Chinese in Japan;
 Chinese in Myanmar;
 Chinese in Singapore;
 Chinese in Southeast Asia;
 Chinese in Vietnam;
 Chinese Influence in East Asia;
 Chinese Influence in Southeast Asia;
 Chinese New Year;
 Chinese, Classical;
 Chinese, Overseas;
 Chinese-Language Newspapers - Singapore;
 Chintanakan mai;

Chis-Chit.
 Chishtiya;
 Chitra-Ardhachitra-Chitrabhasha;
 Chittagong;
 Ch'oe Nam-son;

Cho-Chr.
 Chola;
 Ch'ondogyo;
 Ch'ongjin;
 Chongqing;
 Ch'onmin;
 Chormaqan, Noyan;
 Ch sh  Expeditions;
 Choson Kingdom;
 Choybalsan, Horloogiyn;
 Christianity - Central Asia;
 Christianity - China;
 Christianity - Japan;
 Christianity - Korea;
 Christianity - Myanmar;
 Christianity - South Asia;
 Christianity - Southeast Asia;
 Chrysanthemum;
Chu.
 Chu Nom;
 Chuah Thean Teng;
 Chuan Leekpai;
 Ch bu region;
 Chuci;
 Chugen;
 Chughtai, Ismat;
 Ch goku;
 Chulalongkorn, King;
 Chulalongkorn University;
 Chun Doo Hwan;
 Ch'usok;

Ci.
 Ci;
 Ci Xi, Empress Dowager;
 Cilician Gates;
 Cinema - China;
 Cinema - India;
 Cinema - Japan;
 Cinema - West Asia;
 Cinema, Contemporary - Japan;
 Circassians;
 Citizen's Movement;
 Civil War of 1956-1975 - Laos;
 Civil-Service Examination System - China;
Cl.
Cli.
 Clifford, Hugh;
 Climatology - South Asia;
Clo.
 Cloisonne;
 Clothing, Traditional - Afghanistan;
 Clothing, Traditional - Bhutan;
 Clothing, Traditional - Cambodia;
 Clothing, Traditional - China;
 Clothing, Traditional - Hong Kong;
 Clothing, Traditional - India;
 Clothing, Traditional - Indonesia;
 Clothing, Traditional - Iraq;
 Clothing, Traditional - Japan;
 Clothing, Traditional - Korea;
 Clothing, Traditional - Kyrgyzstan;
 Clothing, Traditional - Laos;
 Clothing, Traditional - Malaysia;
 Clothing, Traditional - Mongolia;
 Clothing, Traditional - Singapore;
 Clothing, Traditional - Southeast Asia, Tribal;
 Clothing, Traditional - Taiwan;
 Clothing, Traditional - Tajikistan;
 Clothing, Traditional - Thailand;
 Clothing, Traditional - Tibet;
 Clothing, Traditional - Turkey;
 Clothing, Traditional - Turkmenistan;
 Clothing, Traditional - Uzbekistan;
 Clothing, Traditional - Vietnam;

Co.
 Co Loa Thanh;
Coa-Com.
 Coastal Malays;
 Cockfighting;
 Coen, Jan Pieterszoon;
 Coimbatore;
 Colombo;
 Colombo Plan;
 Comfort Women;
 Communism - Central Asia;
 Communism - China;
 Communism - North Korea;
 Communism - Vietnam;
 Communist Party of China;
 Communist Party of Burma;
Con-Cou.
 Con Dao Islands;
 Conflicts;
 Confucian Ethics;
 Confucianism - China;
 Confucianism - Japan;
 Confucianism - Korea;
 Confucius;
 Constitution - India;
 Constitution - Iran, Islamic;
 Constitution - Japan, Postwar;
 Constitution - Turkey;
 Constitutional Crisis of 1881;
 Conveyance Arts;
 Coomaraswamy, Ananda Kentish;
 Cordillera Central, Luzon;
 Cormorant;
 Corruption;
 Corruption - China;
 Corruption - Korea;
 Courtyards;

Cr-Cu.
 Cram Schools;
 Cranganur;
 Cricket;
 Cui Jian;
 Cuisine - Afghanistan;
 Cuisine - Central Asia;
 Cuisine - China;
 Cuisine - Indonesia;
 Cuisine - Iran;
 Cuisine - Iraq;
 Cuisine - Japan;
 Cuisine - Korea;
 Cuisine - Malaysia;
 Cuisine - Mongolia;
 Cuisine - Philippines;
 Cuisine - South Asia;
 Cuisine - Singapore;
 Cuisine - Thailand;
 Cuisine - Turkey;
 Cuisine - Vietnam;
 Cukong;
 Cult of Maitreya;
 Cultural Revolution - China;
 Curzon, George Nathaniel;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="944732" title="Aurel Popovici" nonfiltered="263" processed="262" dbindex="450264">
Aurel C. Popovici (16 October 1863 Lugoj, Transylvania -  9 February 1917 Geneva, Switzerland) was an Austria-Hungary ethnic Romanian lawyer and politician. With other Romanian intellectuals of the National Romanian Party, he signed the Transylvanian Memorandum, a document pleading for equal rights with Hungarians in Transylvania, and demanding an end to persecutions and Magyarization attempts. 

In 1906 he proposed the federalization of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy (into the so-called United States of Greater Austria).

See also.
 Ethnic relations in Austria-Hungary;














ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2626869" title="Theodotus of Aetolia" nonfiltered="264" processed="263" dbindex="450265">
Theodotus (in Greek   o o o ) was an Aetolian, who at the accession of Antiochus III the Great (223 187 BC) held the command of the important province of Coele-Syria for Ptolemy Philopator (221 204 BC), king of Egypt. He was an able general, and repulsed with ease the first attack made by the king of Syria upon his government, but instead of being rewarded by Ptolemy for his services, he was recalled to Alexandria, where he nearly fell a victim to the intrigues of some of the courtiers and favourites of the king. Disgusted with this treatment, and despising the vices and luxury of Ptolemy, when he was again suffered to resume the command in Coele-Syria (219 BC) he conceived the design of betraying that province into the hands of Antiochus. His overtures were readily welcomed, and he surrendered the two important fortresses of Tyre and Ptolemais to the Seleucid monarch, whom he immediately joined with the forces under his command. Nicolaus however prevented his design from taking full effect, and retained a part of the Syrian provinces under the allegiance of Egypt. From this time Theodotus enjoyed a high place in the favour of the Syrian king. In the campaign of 217 BC we find him commanding a body of ten thousand select troops, and just before the battle of Raphia he gave a singular proof of daring by penetrating with only two companions into the heart of the Egyptian camp, in order to assassinate Ptolemy himself. Mistaking the king's tent, he slew his physician instead, but effected his escape in safety, and returned to the Syrian camp. Again in 215 BC we find him exhibiting equal audacity in supporting the daring project of Lagoras to scale the walls of the city of Sardis, the success of which seems to have been in great measure owing to his skill and ability.

References.
Polybius; Histories, Evelyn S. Shuckburgh (translator); London - New York, (1889);
Smith, William (editor); Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, "Theodotus (5)", Boston, (1867);

Notes.
 Polybius, v. 40, 46, 61, 62 
 Ibid., v. 66, 79, 81
 Ibid., vii. 16-18




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1986680" title="Embodyment" nonfiltered="265" processed="264" dbindex="450266">
Embodyment are a Christian metal band from Arlington, Texas (USA) which formed in 1993 and were first known by the name "Supplication".  They commenced as a death metal band and released 3 demos under this style, which later appeared altogether on a full-length release entitled , distributed by Solid State Records.  

Their debut album, "Embrace the Eternal", showed a change in style as Embodyment moved from death metal to mid-paced grindcore.  "Embrace the Eternal" also featured re-makes of the songs "Golgotha" and "Religious Infamy", which were originally from their demos.

After the departure of Kris McCaddon on vocals, Embodyment welcomed Sean Corbray on the album, "The Narrow Scope of Things", as permanent vocalist.  This album was the band's first step away from any of the heavier metal subgenres.  Instead, their sound on the album was adjusted to alternative metal with hard rock influences and was the first album to feature actual singing and some screamed vocal parts rather than any form of death vocals.

Embodyment's sound basically remained the same with the exception of a few minor tweaks and line-up changes until their last album, "Songs for the Living", which was also the only album released under XS Records.  It was on this album that Embodyment chose a different style of music altogether, as alternative/indie rock is definitely evident.

Embodyment later disbanded in early 2004 to the disappointment of loyal fans.

They have worked with Solid State Records and XS Records.

Andrew Godwin, Mark Garza and Kris McCaddon have finally resurfaced with a new band, The Famine

 Discography .
 Embrace the Eternal (1998, Solid State);
  (1999, Independent);
 The Narrow Scope of Things (2000, Solid State);
 Hold Your Breath (2001, Solid State);
 Songs for the Living (2002, XS Records);

Demos.
 Persistent Sin (tape under the band name "SUPPLICATION") - 1993 ;
 Corrosion Of The Flesh - 1994 ;
 Embodyment (3 song demo) - 1996;

Former Members.
 Kris McCaddon;
 Sean Corbray;
 Andrew Godwin;
 Mark Garza;
 Jason Lindquist;
 Derrick Wadsworth;
 Kevin Donnini;
 James Lanigan;

 External links and sources.
 Tru Alternativ;
 Texoma.net;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="947997" title="Spur Award" nonfiltered="266" processed="265" dbindex="450267">
The Spur Award is an annual literary prize awarded by the Western Writers of America. Founded in 1953 with only four categories (western novel, historical novel, juvenile and short story), the award today has expanded to include the following categories:

Award Categories.

 Spur Award for Best Western Novel (Short Novel);
 Spur Award for Best Novel of the West (Long Novel);
 Spur Award for Best Original Paperback Novel;
 Spur Award for Best Short Fiction;
 Spur Award for Best Short Nonfiction;
 Spur Award for Best Nonfiction Contemporary;
 Spur Award for Best Nonfiction Biography;
 Spur Award for Best Nonfiction Historical;
 Spur Award for Best Juvenile Fiction;
 Spur Award for Best Juvenile Nonfiction;
 Spur Award for Best Drama Script;
 Spur Award for Best Documentary;
 Spur Award for Best Poetry;
 Spur Award for Best First Novel (aka The Medicine Pipe Bearer's Award);
 Storyteller Award (illustrated children s book);
 Owen Wister Award for lifetime achievement in Western literature;

External links.

At the Western Writers of America homepage;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4391257" title="Piesting" nonfiltered="267" processed="266" dbindex="450268">
The Piesting is a river in southern Lower Austria. Its sources are the Kalte Gang, the Steinapiesting, and the L\E4ngapiesting, which begin south of the Schneeberg.

These creeks meet in the Gutenstein in the Wienerwald. From there the Piestring flows east through Markt Piesting and W\F6llersdorf and into the Viennese Basin.  The Piesting meets the Fischa at Gramatneusiedl.

The valley west of the Thermenlinie in the Wienerwald is known as the Piesting Valley.








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1677202" title="ARP 2600" nonfiltered="268" processed="267" dbindex="450269">


The ARP 2600 is a semi-modular analog subtractive audio synthesizer, designed by Alan R. Pearlman and manufactured by his company, ARP Instruments, Inc. Unlike other modular systems of the time, which required modules to be purchased individually and wired by the user, the 2600 was semi-modular with a fixed selection of basic synthesizer components internally pre-wired. The 2600 was thus ideal for musicians new to synthesis due to its ability to be operated either with or without patchcords, and was, upon its initial release, heavily marketed to high schools, universities, and other educational facilities.

Three versions of the ARP 2600 were built during ARP's lifetime. The first, dubbed the "Blue Meanie," housed in a light blue/grey metal case, was assembled in a garage during ARP's infancy as a company. Later ARP 2600s were built in a vinyl case and contained an imitation of Bob Moog's infamous 4-pole "ladder" VCF, later the subject of an infamous, threatened (though ultimately nonexistent) lawsuit. Finally, in order to fit in with the black/orange theme of ARP's other synthesizers, the ARP 2600s were manufactured with orange labels over a black plastic panel.

Alan R. Pearlman was just as innovative as a salesman as a synthesizer designer, as he gave away synthesizers to famous musicians, namely Edgar Winter,  Pete Townshend, Stevie Wonder, and Herbie Hancock, to supply ARP with free publicity. 

The enduring popularity of the ARP 2600 has led to software companies such as Arturia and Way Out Ware releasing software emulations for use with modern music equipment such as MIDI devices and computer sequencers. Although technology has progressed to the point where the ARP 2600 can be emulated fairly accurately, the idiosyncrasies of analogue circuitry make an exact replica arguably impossible.

 Notable players .
The following is a partial list of artists who have played the ARP 2600:

 808 State;
 Tony Banks;
 Peter Baumann of Tangerine Dream;
 Paul Bley;
 Audiodream;
 Michael Boddicker;
 David Bowie;
 Arthur Brown;
 Richard Burgess;
 Chemical Brothers - used on Dig Your Own Hole;
 Vince Clarke;
 Mike Cotten with the Tubes;
 Steve Cunningham;
 Mickie D;
 Jack Dangers of Meat Beat Manifesto;
 Elemental;
 Depeche Mode;
 Electronic Dream Planet;
 John Entwistle & Pete Townshend of The Who;
 Brian Gascoigne;
 Miquette Giraudy with Gong;
 Roger Glover of Deep Purple;
 Herbie Hancock;
 Steve Hillage;
 John Hollis;
 Steve Howell;
 Jackson Five - used on Rock Me and others;
 Bob James;
 Jean Michel Jarre;
 (M)ercurey;
 Brian Kehew and Roger Manning of The Moog Cookbook;
 Praga Khan of the Lords of Acid;
 Joy Division;
 Klaus Schulze;
 Kool and the Gang;
 Metro LA;
 Steve Levine;
 John Lennon;
 Lightwave;
 Dave Macrea;
 Tony McPhee;
 Daniel Miller;
 Kaus Netzie;
 Nine Inch Nails;
 Nitzer Ebb;
 John McEntire of Tortoise;
 Mike Oldfield;
Orbital;
 Steve Porcaro;
 Roger Powell;
 PiL - "Flowers of Romance";
 Rebirth;
 Shpongle;
 Steve Roach;
 Phil Sawyer;
 The Shamen;
 Skinny Puppy;
 Thighpaulsandra;
 Ultravox;
 Ian Underwood for Frank Zappa;
 Underworld;
 Vince Welnick with the Tubes;
 Wilco - "Spiders (Kidsmoke)";
 Edgar Winter - "Frankenstein";
 Stevie Wonder;
 Xpando;
 Joe Zawinul - usually played two with Weather Report (one for each hand);
 Allan Zavod;
 Zim Zum of Marilyn Manson;
 Larry Fast - Synergy;

 External links .
Synth Museum;
Vintage Synth Explorer;
SDIYcut (an amazing cardboard model of the ARP 2600 can be found on that site);







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="526706" title="Sonic the Comic" nonfiltered="269" processed="268" dbindex="450270">




Sonic the Comic, known to its many readers as STC, was a UK children's comic published fortnightly by Fleetway Editions (the merged companies Fleetway and London Editions, which progressively became integrated with its parent company Egmont until it became known as Egmont Magazines) between 1993 and 2002. It was the UK's official Sega comic, featuring stories about its mascot Sonic the Hedgehog, other Sega video game characters and some characters that appeared in Sega's consoles.

Format.
Sonic the Comics original price was  95 pence, increasing to \A31.35 by the final issue. The comic generally had contained four comic strip stories, each usually following different storylines and being written and drawn by different writers and artists. The first was always a seven page story about Sonic himself (except for one issue which began with Tails instead), and in the earliest issues, the remaining three would involve a different Sega game character (see list below). As time rolled on, Sonic's influence spread, and the other strips were supplanted by supporting-character-based stories such as Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Chaotix, and the anthology "Sonic's World", which featured a variety of events in the STC world not covered by the main character strips.

Aside from the comic strips, for its first few years STC regularly featured content related to Sega videogaming. Fitting in with the Sonic convention of calling levels "Zones", these sections were given such titles as the "Q-Zone" (which featured videogame tips and cheats), the "News Zone" and the "Review Zone". Readers' artwork was printed in the "Graphic Zone", and letters were featured in "Speedlines". 

Megadroid.
The mascot of the comic was a robot named Megadroid, comprised of parts of a Sega Mega Drive. Megadroid was the persona used by the editors of Sonic the Comic to answer letters and provide story recaps and general magazine news (much like Tharg in 2000AD, and in fact created by former Tharg Richard Burton). He acted as a liaison between the readers (whom he called "boomers") and the "humes who think they're in charge".

Megadroid had a one-off strip, where he ran away from the STC offices to a seaside town only to return from his harrowing experience to attend to the needs of the boomers.

Megadroid was dropped from the comic in 1998, and with him the "Speedlines" letter page vanished. Speedlines returned in 2000, though was no longer a regular feature and the letters were supposedly answered by Sonic himself (actually editor Andy Diggle and later Steve MacManus).

As part of STC's unofficial fan-created revival in 2003, Megadroid was brought back, with a mid-section now made of a Nintendo GameCube.

Sonic-related stories.
Setting and history.
Sonic the Comic began its run with a series of fairly inconsequential one-shot stories, and only established its identity and ongoing storyline and setting with issue 8's "The Origin of Sonic". The comic adopted a version of the "Kintobor origin" of Sonic and Doctor Robotnik, which had originally been featured in a promotional comic for the first Sonic game printed in Disney Adventures and had been elaborated upon in Mike Pattenden's book Stay Sonic. Like other UK Sonic publications, STC used the Stay Sonic version as its basis. This origin story established that Sonic was originally a normal brown hedgehog, who burrowed his way into the underground laboratory of Dr. Ovi Kintobor, a scientist who wished to rid the planet Mobius of all evil through the use of powerful gems called the Chaos Emeralds. In addition, he helped Sonic increase his running speed using a special treadmill, until the hedgehog eventually broke the sound barrier with a sonic boom which turned him blue. However, an accident involving the unstable Chaos Emeralds and a rotten egg transformed Kintobor into the evil Dr Ivo Robotnik, leading to the events of the games Sonic the Hedgehog and Sonic the Hedgehog 2. The accident consisted of Kintobor accidentally knocking over a bottle of lemonade into a machine he was working on, that had the emeralds inside (while holding the egg), while he was explaning to Sonic what he was doing.

"The Origin of Sonic" led into a storyline in which Sonic, Tails and their friends were sent forward in time six months. During their absence, Doctor Robotnik had successfully conquered the entire planet of Mobius, and Sonic and co. were forced underground, operating as "freedom fighters" attempting to bring down Robotnik's rule of the planet. This situation remained until issue 100 (1997), when Robotnik was deposed.

The main strip of STC was always Sonic's own, chronicling the adventures he had both on his own and with his teammates, while the other three strips in the comic were a rotating series of stories based on popular Sega video games, usually six parts in length. As time went on, these strips dwindled and were phased out entirely in favour of other stories about Sonic and his friends and ememies, the first of which was a Tails solo series which saw him return to his home in the Nameless Zone, where it was believed that he was the great hero of Mobius, not Sonic, leading to misadventures there. In addition to Tails and Sonic, other members of the Freedom Fighters included Johnny Lightfoot and Porker Lewis, characters based upon the generic pig and rabbit sprites freed from Badniks in the video games. The team soon added the "Kintobor computer" to their ranks - an artificial intelligence based on the brain patterns of Doctor Robotnik's former self - and were later joined by Amy Rose, a female hedgehog infatuated with Sonic, whose lies about being his girlfriend had made her a target for Robotnik's forces. Robotnik himself was later redesigned to match the appearance of his Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog animated series counterpart, and he gained a close ally in Grimer, his green-skinned chief scientist, who was instrumental in creating Metallix, the Metal Sonic, leading to the first major multi-part story in the comic, "The Sonic Terminator," itself an adaptation of the Sonic CD video game.

While "The Sonic Terminator" was STC's first adaptation of a video game, it was not their last. Knuckles the Echidna and his Floating Island soon made their debuts in the pages of the comic as Sonic the Hedgehog 3 was adapted, and the mysterious history of the ancient power objects, the Chaos Emeralds and their relation to Knuckles's lost race of Echidnas steadily began to unfold (see the gems' own article for full details). Instantly popular with readers, Knuckles was spun off into his own storylines in the comic, while new, original characters like sky-pirate Captain Plunder, rebellious super-Badnik Shortfuse the Cybernik and engineering genius Tekno the Canary were introduced, often in the anthology strip Sonic's World, and would in turn become popular enough that they would headline their own strips at times. One of the most far-reaching storylines of the comic was the adaptation of the Sonic and Knuckles game, which ultimately led into the introduction of the Chaotix Crew and the Brotherhood of Metallix, an army of Metal Sonics who had turned on Robotnik, and embarked on a plan to alter the timeline and take over Mobius.

One of STCs more innovative choices compared to other Sonic fiction was the use of Sonic's Chaos Emerald-induced powered-up form, Super Sonic, as a monstrous, inhibitionless alter-ego, the Mr. Hyde to Sonic's Doctor Jekyll. The appearances of Super Sonic were few and far between in the first eighty or so issues of the comic, making the character's eventual showings all the more impressive and special. Shortly after reappearing to combat Commander Brutus, a Badnik trooper programmed with Robotnik's own brain patterns who eventually led a revolution against this creator, exposure to more emerald power than ever made Super Sonic almost completely uncontrollable. When the Freedom Fighters transferred the chaos energy out of Sonic into the weird alternate dimension known as the Special Zone, Super Sonic continued to exist as a separate entity, forcing Sonic to pursue him. Using the dimension-hopping Omni-Viewer to freeze Super Sonic in time, Sonic was left with no way to return to Mobius and spent a brief period in the Special Zone, while Shortfuse joined the Freedom Fighters to keep them going and Knuckles ended his long quest back to the Floating Island. This ended when Super Sonic freed himself, his escape triggering a planet-wide electromagnetic pulse that the Omni-Viewer shunted to Mobius, deactivating Robotnik's computer systems and robots worldwide. In the comic's landmark 100th issue, with no technology or troops to protect him, Robotnik was finally deposed as Mobius's ruler, beginning a new stage in the storyline of Sonic the Comic.

After establishing the new state of play on Mobius - including the now-amnesiac Super Sonic's befriending of magician Ebony and psychic Pyjamas - STCs next major move was its adaptation of Sonic 3D Blast, which would prove to be the last game adaptation for a prolonged period of time. Although it ultimately amounted to little more than use of the different elements from the game (Flickies Island, the birds used for Badniks and dimensional travel via Mobius Rings), with the added introduction of a new Metallix villain (with its design based on Knuckles this time), it was a key stepping stone in shaping the direction of Sonic stories right up until the conclusion of the series. The story introduced the interdimensional alien race known as the Drakon Empire (spun out of a dangling plot point from nearly one hundred issues prior), who allied themselves with Doctor Robotnik in an attempt to acquire the Chaos Emeralds, revealing their previous ownership of the gems ages prior. Alliances, betrayals and double-crosses cumulated in Robotnik's successful capture of the Emeralds and a 4-issue epic in which he had god-like powers & reshaped Mobius entirely, but when his body was drained of Chaos Energy he vanished into a sub-atomic dimension. 

A series of dimension-hopping adventures by Amy and Tekno resulted in Mobius being briefly invaded by Earth military forces, after which Sonic pursued Grimer and Nack the Weasel in their quest to recover Robotnik. Trapped on the sub-atomic world of Shanazar, Sonic found it hard to adapt to the local culture, and when Amy's adventures led her to join him on the planet, the two explored the world's numerous vastly-different zones, combating myriad threats. Robotnik had his own plans, however, using the dimensional technology that brought Sonic, Grimer and Nack to Shanazar to enlarge the world, fusing it with Mobius in a Crisis on Infinite Earths-style event. Shanazar's zones could now be accessed from portals on Mobius, and various doorways had also opened to various points in Earth's history. Infuriated with yet another failure, however, Robotnik decided to bring his long war with Sonic to an end by destroying Mobius once and for all. Entering into a partnership with the living plastic alien hive-mind, The Plax, Robotnik used their technology to absorb elemental energy from both Mobius and Earth, forcing both worlds into total ecological collapse. His scheme was again foiled, however, by Shortfuse, who wired his armour into Robotnik's machine, undo the damage and draining the energy from the villain, with the added bonus of the feedback finally liberating him from his armour.

This proved to be one defeat too many for Robotnik - retreating physically and mentally, he languished in darkness, until Grimer, desperate to snap his master out of his depression, initiated the events of the comic's final storyline, the adaptation of Sonic Adventure (although in practice, this would prove to be the loosest game adaptation yet, as the game's wildly different approach was largely incompatible with the STC universe). Discovering a canister containing a creature of living chaos energy, Grimer unleashed the fear-inducing "Chaos" upon the Freedom Fighters, leading to the death of Johnny Lightfoot. Rampaging out of Grimer's control, Chaos then attacked the Floating Island, intended to absorb the Chaos Emeralds, but Knuckles jettisoned the emeralds before he could absorb more than one, causing the island itself to plunge into the ocean. While Robotnik then set about gathering the emeralds to lure all the players to his fortress that they might all die together, Sonic was transported into the ancient past of Mobius by Tikal and Pochacamac, two of the planet's race of echidnas, where he witnessed the beginning of the war between the Echidnas ans the Drakon Empire, the origins of the Chaos Emeralds, and the creation of Chaos, who proved to be a Drakon prosecutor, mutated by exposure to the emeralds. Returning to the present, Sonic arrived just as Chaos absorbed the remaining emeralds and became Perfect Chaos. Robotnik's suicide plan was thwarted, however, by the unexpected appearance of Super Sonic, dying due to depletion of his own chaos energy. Absorbing Chaos's energy, reverting him back to his Drakon form, Super Sonic became his old evil self again and turned on the Freedom Fighters, until Ebony used her magics to fused Sonic and Super Sonic back together again.

Sonic the Comics original stories came to an end at this point with issue #184, but the comic continued until #223 with reprinted material from throughout the magazine's life.

Characters.
Sonic the Hedgehog.
As the central protagonist and main character of the comic, Sonic was portrayed in his eponymous comic with an attitude which differs slightly compared to what is considered the norm in other media; here he is presented as being somewhat bossy, cocky and arrogant, and characters regularly referred to his "strange sense of humour". Sonic's attitude frequently made cruel jokes at the expense of his friend Tails, behavior contrary to that seen in most of the continuities. However, like all his incarnations, Sonic truly does care about his friends and their well-being, the same care also applies to his home planet of Mobius. Towards the end of the comic's run, with the death of Johnny Lightfoot, Sonic imposed a heavy blame upon himself; disgusted in how he'd kept his friends in the firing line for so many years. After a brief self-imposed exile, he returned to his friends with a much less self-centred attitude, and now more determined than ever.

Originally a resident of the Emerald Hill Zone, Sonic became friends with the benevolent scientist Dr. Ovi Kintobor and assisted in his experiments by running errands for him. He was present for most of the doctor's pivotal experiments, but didn't really pay much attention to them. Sonic's life took a bizarre turn when Kintobor directed his curiosity towards Sonic's running prowess (Sonic was fast even before gaining his blue hue), and attempted to measure what speed Sonic could reach under his own power. Kintobor gave him friction reducing trainers or "Power Sneakers" to help him run faster and put him in a kinetic gyratosphere (a spherical treadmill of sorts) to test Sonic's speed. The machine was started up and Sonic ran faster and faster in it until he reached the speed of sound, causing a sonic boom that blew up the machine with the colossal quantities of kinetic energy fusing Sonic's quills together and turning them a distinctly different blue colour.

Upon Kintobor's transformation into Dr. Robotnik, Sonic used his speed to battle against the madman's attempts at conquering Mobius. Sonic honed his skills using the various structures around the Emerald Hill Zone and soon learned to control his super-speed, allowing him to perform aerial feats and stunts. His signature move quickly became the "Sonic Spin Attack", which proved useful for destroying Badniks and Troopers, but he also employed many other techniques (such as creating a cocoon of speed to rip his opponents apart) over the years. He was frequently able to escape being held captive by discreetly vibrating the restraints with constant speed; eventually shaking them apart. He also displayed the ability to create a force field by vibrating the molecules in the air around him at supersonic speed.

He has a cover identity of "Bob Beaky", a heavily wrapped-up bird, where he uses for undercover work. 

Heroes.

Tails;
Knuckles the Echidna;
Amy Rose;
Johnny Lightfoot;
Porker Lewis;
Shortfuse the Cybernik;
Tekno the Canary;
Chaotix;
The Omni-Viewer;

Villains.

Doctor Robotnik;
Grimer;
Super Sonic;
Doctor Zachary;
Commander Brutus;
The Drakon Empire;
Metallix, the Metal Sonic and the Brotherhood of Metallix;
Nack the Weasel;
Megatox;
Nutzan Bolt;
Captain Plunder;
The Plax;
Trogg;

Non-Sonic stories.

When STC started out, three of the four strips in each issue originated from games other than Sonic. After a while, they were gradually replaced by Sonic spin-offs.

Shinobi (3 series) ;
Streets of Rage (3 series) ;
Kid Chameleon (2 series) ;
Eternal Champions (2 series) ;
Golden Axe (2 series) ;
Decap Attack (3 series, initially);
"Pirate STC" (1 series) ;
Marko's Magic Football (1 series) ;
Ecco the Dolphin (2 series) ;
Wonder Boy (2 series) ;
Sparkster Knight Adventures (1 series) ;
Mutant League Football (1 series) ;
Shining Force (1 series) ;
"Megadroid" (2 series);

Of these, "Pirate STC" and the "Megadroid" strips was the only ones not to be based on an existing video game; "Pirate STC" was based on a series of adverts for the Sega Mega Drive and Mega CD, while the "Megadroid" strips were based on the host robot of Sonic the Comic. 

Decap Attack.
Decap Attack was an adaptation of a Mega Drive game. The strip became very popular and outlasted all the other non-Sonic strips (partly because the editor liked it), becoming Nigel Kitching's pet project.

Staff.
The bulk of the work in the comic was written by either Nigel Kitching or Lew Stringer, while art was provided by Richard Elson, Nigel Dobbyn, Carl Flint, Woodrow Phoenix, Roberto Corona, Mike McMahon, Kitching himself and many others. 

Several of the comic's writers and artists have since had success elsewhere. Mark Millar, who wrote the first Streets of Rage storyline and some Sonic strips, has since written major titles for DC and Marvel Comics such as The Authority and Ultimate X-Men; occasional cover contributor Dermot Power has worked as a concept artist on several Hollywood films; and Road to Perdition illustrator Richard Rayner contributed to Decap Attack scripts.

Demise.
The demise of STC began when budget cuts at the comic led to the number of pages being cut from 36 to 32 in 1997 and as a result, the loss of the news, game review and game tips sections. Despite being one of Fleetway's biggest selling comics in 1998 (at one point that year it was outselling 2000AD), from issue 133, published that July, one strip an issue was given over to reprints to save money as part of Fleetway's policy of five-year reader cycles (issue 133 was published shortly after the comic's 5th birthday). Later in the year, the mascot Megadroid was removed, along with the "Speedlines" letters page. Two more strips were later replaced by reprints, leaving just the main strip and the cover as the only new material from issue 157 (issues 155 and 156 had 2 new stories, though this was merely to let the existing Amy and Tekno story draw to a close). With only one new strip an issue, this meant there were no new supporting character strips, the main strip being the only new material in the comic. The reprints policy meant Kitching was supposed to share the main strip with Lew Stringer, causing the plans for the Shanazar arc to be heavily altered.

During this time, the main strip's stories came under the "Time Zone" banner, mostly being set on Shanazar and then later involving dimensional portals leading to other dimensions & Earth's history (identical to the previous Amy & Tekno stories) due to editorial preference. This was highly unpopular with many fans as neither Mobius nor any of the main characters bar Sonic & Amy featured, and the lack of anciliary strips meant no other stories could be told, with Richard Elson's artwork also arguably at its lowest point. Lew Stringer was the comic's sole writer during this period, Nigel Kitching having being sacked after issue 157 (returning with issue 175 after a change in editor).

Despite an apocalyptic final story by Stringer and a much-lauded comeback by Kitching in 2000, Egmont made the decision for the comic to be fully reprint from issue 185 - although these still had new covers, drawn by Richard Elson who was the sole artist in the final issues. This happened at short notice   even Kitching wasn't aware that issue 184 would be his last until he requested an extension for the ten-issue storyline he was in the middle of writing, having apparently already made plans for future stories that would follow it. He revealed the cancellation to fans on the STC Mailing list on April 19, 2000   a little over two months before the last issue was published, and only a few weeks after he himself had been made aware of the fact. As a result, the final story ended with a handful of loose ends from earlier stories left untied.

Fully-reprint issues continued to be published until issue 223, which reprinted the four-part storyline "The Evil Empire" and featured an article by Nigel Kitching about his time working on the comic, an abridged version of that had appeared on the Mailing List.

Related publications.
In addition to Sonic the Comic, nine issues of Sonic the Poster Mag were published. This comic consisted of an A1-sized poster, on the reverse of which was printed a comic strip in A4-sized sections. The poster was folded to match the pages of the comic. Most of the stories were based around Sonic, but one was devoted to Shinobi and another to Streets of Rage. Issues 1 & 2 were not strips. Issue 1 contained info on the two cartoon series (AOSTH and SatAM) and Issue 2 was game tips on Sonic Chaos.

In 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1999 Sonic Summer Specials were published. The 1995 issue consisted mainly of reprinted material from Sonic the Poster Mag, and the 1999 edition was entirely reprints. In addition, in 1996 the Knuckles Knock-Out Special was printed, containing material devoted to Sonic's "friendly rival".

 Sonic the Comic Online . 

Sonic the Comic - Online! (or STC-O! as it is commonly referred to) is an unofficial web-based continuation of Sonic the Comic.  The strips continue the adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog and his group of Freedom Fighters from where Nigel Kitching's Chaos Arc left off back in Issue #184. STC-O!'s first issue starts at #224, because the original STC started fully reprinting old strips from #185 to #223, meaning there is a huge "gap" in these issues with no new material other than the covers.

Many notable events have taken place thus far in the Online comic. The long missing Dr. Zachary was established as the primary villain for the opening issues of the comic, freeing the mysterious echidna known as Vichama, waking Shadow the Hedgehog and ordering the latter to destroy the Special Zone. Tikal the Echidna also returned, and has lost her memories of the Ancient Echidna race, much to Knuckles regret, and currently resides on the Floating Island. The destruction of the Special Zone has also had seemingly further reaching reprecussions in the introduction of The Family, a group of Mafia-style insects led by the mysterious Don Long-Legs, who appear to have designs on both the Freedom Fighters and Mobius itself.

The comic does not have the backing of either Egmont Fleetway or Sega, but many of the original STC writers and artists have praised the website and backed its continuation (Nigel Kitching is also an occasional contributor to the site's message boards). Thus, it is considered among STC fans as "unofficially official" - the closest to an official continuation there is ever likely to be. It was even in the running for the Diamond National Comics Award for Best Online Strip, 2004 - coming in second place to the officially-licensed Matrix Comics.

Thus far, the series has reached its 240th issue via this continuation and has introduced the popular game characters Shadow the Hedgehog and Rouge the Bat and even, in issue #240, the older, one-time character, Bean the Dynamite.

STC-O is also home to the Message Zone, a forum home to thousands of members. Originally starting as a place to discuss the latest online issues, the forum has grown considerably, adding more boards, and more areas of talk.

External links.
The original STC mailing list, frequently posted to by popular writer Nigel Kitching;
STC Archive - Complete story index and downloads;
STC Online;
The Message Zone ;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6396855" title="Rukai language" nonfiltered="270" processed="269" dbindex="450271">


Rukai is the language of the Rukai, a tribe of indigenous people on Taiwan (see Taiwanese aborigines. It is a Formosan language of the Austronesian languages language family.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7085139" title="Patricia Geary" nonfiltered="271" processed="270" dbindex="450272">
Patricia Geary is an American author.  After writing two borderline fantasy novels, Living in Ether (1982) and Strange Toys (1987), the latter of which won the Philip K. Dick Award, she found it difficult to sell her third novel as she had a reputation primarily as a fantasy author, and returned to teaching (she teaches creative writing at the University of Redlands.  Her third novel, The Other Canyon, was published in 2002 by Gorsky Press, and another, Guru Cigarettes, in 2005.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1124454" title="Prudence Heward" nonfiltered="272" processed="271" dbindex="450273">
Prudence Heward, born July 2, 1896 - died March 19, 1947, was a Canadian painter.

Born Efa Prudence Heward in Montreal, Quebec, Canada into a well-to-do family, she was educated at private schools. At a young age, she showed an interest in art and, encouraged by her family, she attended the Art Association of Montreal school for training.

During World War I, Heward lived in England where her brothers served in the Canadian army while she served as a volunteer with the Red Cross. Returning to Canada at war's end, she continued her painting and joined the Beaver Hall Hill Group. In 1924 her works were given their first public showing at the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts in Toronto, Ontario. However, it was still an era when women artists were given little credibility and it wasn't until 1932 that Heward's first solo exhibition came at the Scott Gallery in Montr\E9al.

Wanting to refine her skills, and drawn to the great gathering of creative genius in the Montparnasse Quarter of Paris, France, between 1925 and 1926 Prudence Heward lived and painted in Paris. While studying at the Acad\E9mie Colarossi, she frequented Le Dome Caf\E9 in Montparnasse, the favorite haunt of North American writers and artists and the place where Canadian writer Morley Callaghan came with his friends Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald. 

While in Paris, Heward met Ontario painter Isabel McLaughlin with whom she became friends and would later join with her and other artists on nature painting trips. In 1929 her career got a major boost when her painting, Girl on a Hill, won the top prize in the Governor General Willingdon competition organized by the National Gallery of Canada. 

She was invited to exhibit with the Group of Seven and through it became friends with A. Y. Jackson with whom she would go on sketching excursions along the Saint Lawrence River. While she did a number of landscapes, with a particular attachment for Quebec's Eastern Townships, Heward is most recognized for her portraits that provide compelling representations of women and children including the five nude subjects she painted of which four were black women.

In 1933, Prudence Heward co-founded the Canadian Group of Painters, but her struggle with asthma and other health problems eventually slowed her down. A 1939 automobile accident curtailed her abilities further but she still produced some outstanding portraits until 1945 when her health had deteriorated to the point where she had to give up painting. She died two years later, while seeking medical treatment in Los Angeles, California.

Today, works by Prudence Heward can be found in several Canadian galleries including the Winnipeg Art Gallery, the Montr\E9al Museum of Fine Arts and at the National Gallery of Canada.

In 1996, her cousin, politician Heward Grafftey, wrote "Chapter Four: Prudence Heward" for the book Portraits of a Life.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="84696" title="Basket Swamp National Park" nonfiltered="273" processed="272" dbindex="450274">
Basket Swamp is a national park in New South Wales (Australia), 558 km north of Sydney, and 15 kilometres north east of Tenterfield.

The park is named after Basket Swamp, a waterlogged area in the western sector of the park.

Fact sheet.
Area: 28.20 km\B2;
Coordinates: ;
Date of establishment: January  1, 1999;
Managing authorities: New South Wales National Parks and Wildlife Service;
IUCN category: II;

References.



See also.
 Protected areas of New South Wales (Australia);







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5609483" title="Adobogiona" nonfiltered="274" processed="273" dbindex="450275">
Adobogiona (fl. c. 80-c. 50 BCE) was a Celtic Galatian princess.

The daughter of Deiotarus and sister to Brogitarus, princess of the Tolistobogii tribe, she was also cousin to King Deiotarus, the famous adherent of Pompey the Great. Adobogiona became the wife of Menodotus, a wealthy patrician citizen of Pergamum, in Asia Minor. Their son Mithridates of Pergamum (c. 80-41 BCE) was the friend and ally of Julius Caesar, who appointed him as tetrarch over there Trocmi tribe shortly before his assassination in 44 BCE. Adobogiona was hounoured by a surviving inscription uncovered on the island of Lesbos, and her portrait head has been discovered at Pergamum.

Reference.
S. Mitchell, Anatolia: Land, Men and Gods in Asia Minor, Vol. I (1956).





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6841927" title="Valley Comprehensive School" nonfiltered="275" processed="274" dbindex="450276">
Valley Comprehensive School is situated in Worksop, United Kingdom. The current Headmaster is Brian Rossiter.

History.

Valley was originally called Bentinck Secondary Modern. A pupil's result from the eleven plus determined which secondary school in Worksop you could attend. Those thought suitable for either an academic or technical education went sent to Portland Comprehensive and others received training in simple, practical skills at Bentinck.

Pupils were first admitted into Bentinck on 19th September 1957, but the schools official opening wasn't until 1960. Some of the buildings such as the Hall are the same today as they were then. Bentinck's first headmaster was Mr Wade and the deputy was Mr Taylor.

Pupils were taught Maths, English, Science, Geography, History, R.E., Music, Art and P.E. Boys took Metalwork, Woodwork, and Technical Drawing, whereas the girls learnt Cooking and Needlework.

The uniform for the girls consisted of a short, grey skirt (or a green and white striped dress in winter), a green and white striped shirt, a bottle-green v-neck, navy jumper and blazer. Boys wore grey trousers, a white shirt and a bottle-green blazer.

 External links .

 School website;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7219722" title="Schubert Club" nonfiltered="276" processed="275" dbindex="450277">

The Schubert Club, established in 1882, is a non-profit arts organization that presents eight concert series annually, operates a Museum of Musical Instruments, runs an annual scholarship competition for music students, provides after-school music lessons, presents master classes, commissions new musical works by American composers, and produces recordings and books. 

The Museum and the administrative offices are located in the historic Landmark Center in downtown Saint Paul, Minnesota.

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6301393" title="Buttes" nonfiltered="277" processed="276" dbindex="450278">

Buttes is a municipality in the district of Val-de-Travers, in the canton of Neuch\E2tel, Switzerland.

External links.
 ;
 Official website ;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7948488" title="Gun myths in popular culture" nonfiltered="278" processed="277" dbindex="450279">


Throughout the years, movies and television have taken liberties with reality in the interest of good visuals and larger than life characters.  The effects of these special effects and the tendency for humans to believe what they see have created a multitude of myths regarding firearms.  These range from how firearms operate to their effects down range.  Some of these myths may be dangerous if imitated.

Operation.
 Hammerless pistols like the Glock may be cocked as they are drawn.  Since John Browning included a concealed hammer on the M1903 Colt Hammerless, exposed hammers are not a necessity.  These pistols, cannot be cocked or recocked without manually operating the slide.

 A bolt-action rifle fires semi-automatic, such as in Anaconda (film).  Bolt action rifles, except for a very unusual double barreled repeater costing $50,000 USD, can not fire more than one shot without the bolt being manipulated to extract the empty casing, cock the action, and load a new round into the chamber.  Even the Fuchs repeater has only a single extra round before needing to be manually cycled.

 Silencers may be used on revolvers. Almost all revolvers contain a gap between the cylinder and the barrel.  Explosive energy and noise escape through this gap when the round is fired. There are few exceptions.  The Nagant M1895 revolver, a late 19th century Russian service revolver, can and has been silenced because the cylinder is cammed forward during the firing process to create a gas seal.  Customized revolvers using rounds that encapsulate the propellant and a muzzle mounted suppressor have also been created for extremely specialized situations.

 Machine guns such as the heavy M60 can be accurately fired from the hip with one hand as the other arm guides the ammunition belt, such as in the Rambo movies.  These weapons fire full power rifle ammunition with full power recoil.  The recoil tends to force the gun away from any point of aim unless tightly controlled.  This results in extremely poor accuracy unless firing distances are very short.

 Pistols can be fired sideways accurately, as seen on many "gangsta" films and videos. This will result in poor accuracy and is not used by experienced shooters under normal circumstances.  Ironically, some experimental evaluations have found that holding a pistol at a 45\B0 angle may be as accurate and allow quicker, aimed follow up shots than a pistol held vertically.  This technique was used with the late 80s early 90s Berettas because the shooter could catch hot brass in the eye if held normally, it was then adopted by the "gangsta" lifestyle. Sideways firing was also used in drive-by shootings because it required a minimal window gap and therefore reduced the chance that casings would fall outside of the car.

 The M1 Garand cannot be reloaded mid-clip. This is especially true in many video games, including but not limited to Day of Defeat: Source, Call of Duty and Medal of Honor. In actuality you can remove the previous magazine by pulling the bolt back, extracting the previously loaded cartridge (and inevitably drop the extracted round.., pressing down the magazine catch (which actually isn t pressed downwards, but from left side towards right) and removing the clip, then inserting a new clip. (Note that when removing a partially emptied clip, you are very likely to drop the remaining cartridges on the floor, as the cartridges are held in place in the clip only when full). This is not a quick process, and the process is quite likely to result in one ending up with a thumb painfully caught in the lock, but it is definitely possible to reload.

Magazines can be "refilled" when half-full. Many video games allow the player to refill the amount of ammunition in a weapon's magazine using the same motion one would use to load a new magazine. In reality, one would have to either discard the partially loaded magazine and the ammunition along with it, or be left with a half-empty magazine. In order to refill magazines, one would either consolidate multiple half-empty magazines into a smaller number of full ones by transferring ammunition between magazines, or load loose rounds into the magazine(s). Both are time-consuming processes.

 A semi-automatic handgun can be unloaded by removing the magazine. Some handguns may have a "magazine safety" that prevents the gun from firing when the magazine is removed, but most do not. You must remove the magazine, clear the chamber and preferably lock back the slide to check both by touch and sight to ensure a gun is unloaded. Even when the gun is completely without ammunition, negligence is considered very rude, undisciplined and embarrassing, and usually considered threatening. Gun safety is important, because most non-intentional gun firing incidents involving personal injury and/or property destruction also involve negligent gun handling; non-intentional discharges are referred to as "negligent discharges", as true accidents are extremely rare.

 Glocks can be fired underwater, as claimed in U.S. Marshals The average Glock is extremely dangerous to fire underwater, as the striker is slowed by the pressure of water and thus can simply fail to fire, or when using higher pressure loads such as .40 S&W or .357SIG or hollowpoint rounds, pressure can increase beyond acceptable limits and cause the gun to explode.  Only the rare Glock 17 Mariner variant, or a Glock 17 fitted with special maritime spring cups and using standard pressure ball ammunition, allows safe firing underwater.  Even then, the range and power is very limited, with penetration of   inch thick pine at 10 feet considered a good point.  The sound amplification effect of water is also worthy of consideration, meaning that if the shooter's head is underwater, the shot will be many times louder than normal and hence likely to damage hearing permanently.

 Fully-automatic fire. There are many myths about fully-automatic firearms, from the effects to the usage and purpose. In reality, world militaries and police forces discourage full automatic fire because of its tendency to waste ammunition while achieving very few hits and potentially overheating the weapon (even going so far as to strip the full auto option on military weapons as in the latest incarnations of the American M16). Instead, the fully automatic mode on rifle and machine guns is most often used for suppressive fire, utilizing short bursts to prevent an enemy from advancing or accurately returning fire. Submachine guns are a different case in that they are used primarily for short range, close quarters engagements where their high rate of fire and low recoil make them much more controllable on fully automatic fire than weapons chambered for full power rifle cartridges. Even so, submachine gun tactics also employ short bursts on a general area of the target to overcome their low power and ensure at least several hits. A combatant firing any weapon on fully automatic for the entirety of the magazine's capacity will likely miss with the majority of their shots and inflict a large amount of collateral damage unless the target is extremely close and the shooter has good control of the weapon. In short, many films and video games have distorted public perception of what automatic fire can do and what it was designed for.

Ammunition Use and Effects.

 Bullets can be stopped by items such as car doors, windshields (which can deflect depending on the angle fired and range along with what caliber), chairs, bath tubs, etc. Most will be penetrated quite easily with common pistol and rifle rounds.  Some deviation in flight path while penetrating glass is a common.  Typical household interior walls present very little obstacle to even small caliber handgun rounds.  However, light .223 Remington hollow point bullets have been shown to stop after penetrating a single interior wall.  By comparison, the 7.62mm NATO specification rounds used by the North Hollywood bank robbers were shown to have penetrated an exterior wall and multiple interior walls.

 40mm grenades can be detonated at close ranges. In actuality they have a pre-set distance before becoming armed in most current rounds to avoid detonating while the shooter is still in the casualty radius.  One specific subtype of fuse will arm itself after 3-5m, but these are not common and endanger the firer in close quarters.

 Entire rounds, casing and bullet included, exit the barrel, such as in Major Payne the title character offers a .22 LR round to his date saying he pulled it out of his heart when a man shot him. The round is clearly intact and is not the typical bullet used by most militaries. The Simpsons tend to also show this quite often throughout the series.  The casing is used to carry the propellant and bullet into the weapon.  Once it is detonated, the bullet leaves the casing via the barrel and the casing is ejected when the weapon is cycled via the ejection port.

 Black Talon rounds will tear through body armor and are "Cop-Killer" bullets. Seen on Law & Order: SVU. Winchester's Black Talon JHP rounds have no special capability against body armor.  As a matter of fact, they are designed to rapidly expand on impact decreasing their ability to penetrate bullet resistant armor.  The National Institute of Justice, who sets standards for law enforcement body armor, specifically employs full metal jacketed (FMJ) bullets in testing as they tend to outpenetrate hollow points in most calibers.  ;

 Hollow-point rounds making massive exit wounds. It is true that they expand but definitely not to the degree usually depicted.

 A person being shot is sent flying. This would be impossible since it would send the shooter flying from the recoil. As stated in Newton's laws of motion: "Every motion has an equal and opposite reaction."  It has been documented using various techniques that even the huge .50 Browning Machine Gun round does not have sufficient energy to knock a person backwards.  Mathematically feasible, it is impossible for a bullet and a human body to collide inelastically and in a manner that transfers the bullets energy to the body completely.  Above a certain point, the bullet transfers only part of its energy and exits the body with the rest.(It should be noted, however, that muscular reactions exist which cause the body to jerk away from a chest injury. While such reactions will not cause the body to go flying, they may, under some circumstances, cause some backward movement.);

 All bullets having almost the same level of stopping power. As seen in the Death Wish series.  Handgun rounds can be divided into various performance classes, and performance within those classes are roughly similar.  However, the difference between a "pocket gun caliber" such as the .25 ACP and a "magnum handgun caliber" such as the .44 Magnum is pronounced.  Still, even relatively powerful handguns depend on careful bullet placement for immediate results in a self-defense situation.

 Dum-Dum rounds have a greater stopping power. In general, expanding rounds tend to be more effective than rounds that do not expand.  Modern JHP self-defense ammunition is carefully tailored to provide a good balance between penetration and expansion based on studies by various law-enforcement organizations.

 5.56mm rounds are "buzz-saw" bullets that tear through a person before tumbling inside them. Most high velocity rifle once slowed by impacting human tissue begin to yaw and tumble expending their energy creating a large internal wound.  Depending on the location of the impact and the velocity of the bullet (and bullet design), this yawing may not occur in all wounds.  Accuracy is not generally impacted.

Common Myths on Common Guns.

Glock pistols will not be detected by metal detectors. This myth was publicized in the movie "Die Hard II" when John McClane made a comment about the nonexistant "Glock 7".  This is corrected in the movie Lord of War when Yuri sells a drug lord a Glock and mentions that this is not true and not to attempt it. Glock handguns use steel slides and barrels, and though the frame largely consists of synthetic material, it does have molded in metal guide rails which would be impossible to remove without destroying the firearm. This means that none of the Glock's vital parts could pass through a metal detector undetected. Though the one in the movie is supposed to be entirely plastic.

S&W Model 29 .44 Magnum is the "Most powerful handgun in the world." as mentioned in Dirty Harry. The .44 Magnum is not a handgun, but rather a cartridge. It was the most powerful in the world until 1959, in which it was superseded by the .454 Casull . The .500 S&W is the current holder of the "most powerful commercially manufactured handgun cartridge" title.

 M16's are notoriously unreliable. This was true for the M-16 issued during Vietnam due to a variety of reasons. Cleaning kits were not issued due to the erroneous advertising that the weapon was self-cleaning.  In addition, the military changed the type of powder used over the objections of the designer--this resulted in more fouling than anticipated. While not as reliable as many other military rifles, most problems have been remedied and M16s are generally reliable if kept clean and maintained properly.  The M16A4 is now the standard issue and older models of the M16 are being phased out.

 Bullet-proof vests render a person invulnerable to most rounds. There is no such thing as a completely "bullet-proof" vest. However, there is body armor that offers protection against pistol and shotgun rounds (to a degree). Rifle rounds punch through normal body armor except for Armor plates designed for rifle rounds. It should be noted that multiple shots can ensure penetrating and there is still the case of severe bruising or broken bones with armor.

Barrett .50 BMG sniper rifles can be used by terrorists to shoot down commercial jets. Although .50 BMG weapons are very powerful compared to other small arms, the cartridge's power is not adequate to cripple a large airplane by sheer impact alone. Most major air forces stopped using .50 caliber machine guns in their fighter aircraft shortly after World War II for this reason.  Furthermore, all modern jet airliners have two or more engines, two pilots, and emergency backups for all vital systems.  Shooting down an airliner with a .50 BMG weapon would require at least two (and probably more) hits to vital aircraft parts or the flight crew- a highly unlikely proposition. Hitting a stationary target once at 1,000 yard range (if one was to hypothetically ignore the altitude of most aircraft) is difficult enough. One could possibly hit a plane landing or taking off but that in itself would be a great challenge. Also, the cost of the rifle and the ammunition alone would deter anyone but the most well-funded group; RPGs are less expensive and better suited for such purposes. This rifle and round is used mostly for anti-materiel purposes in the military, and long-distance target shooting and big game hunting (notably bear) in the civilian market.

References.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1035593" title="Battle of Baxter Springs" nonfiltered="279" processed="278" dbindex="450280">



The Battle of Baxter Springs, sometimes called the Baxter Springs Massacre, was a minor battle of the American Civil War, fought on October 6, 1863, near the modern-day town of Baxter Springs, Kansas.

In late 1863, the guerrilla band of Quantrill's Raiders travelled south from Kansas along the Texas Road to winter in Texas. Numbering about 400, this group captured and killed two Union teamsters who had come from small Federal Army post called Fort Blair. 

Quantrill decided to attack Fort Blair and divided his force into two columns, one under him and the  other commanded by a subordinate, David Poole. Poole and his men proceeded down the Texas Road, where they encountered Union soldiers, most of whom were African Americans. They chased and attacked the Union troops, killing some of them before they reached the earth and log fort. 

Poole's column then attacked Fort Blair, but the garrison fought them off with the aid of a howitzer. Quantrill's column moved on the post from another direction and happened to encounter a Union detachment escorting Maj. Gen. James G. Blunt as he was in the process of moving his command headquarters from Fort Scott to Fort Smith. 

Most of this detachment, including the military band, Maj. Henry Z. Curtis (son of Maj. Gen. Samuel R. Curtis), and Johnny Fry (first official westbound rider of the Pony Express) was killed,  but Blunt and a few mounted men escaped and returned to Fort Scott. Blunt was removed  from command for failing to protect his column, but he was soon restored. Touted as a massacre by some, Baxter Springs was another of the events  that characterized the vicious Kansas-Missouri border warfare.

See also.
Battle of Lawrence;
Baxter Springs Heritage Center featuring a mural of the Battle of Baxter Springs by: Edmund V. Ness

References.
Civil War Sites Advisory Commission Battle Summary
Kansas Forts During the Civil War (1992);









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8841918" title="Bulat-Bat?r" nonfiltered="280" processed="279" dbindex="450281">


Bulat-Bat r or Bulat-batyr (Russian:       -      , Tatar:           ) is a silent film, believed to be the first Tatar film and probably the only Tatar full-length feature silent film. The film was shot mostly in Kazan, and Kazan Kremlin was one of it's stills. The film is devoted to Pugachev rebellion and its alternative name is Pugachyovshchina (Russian:            ).

The story was written by Abdraxman  akirov, a young Communist from Agryz and the script was written by Natan Zarhi, a famous Soviet scenario writer.

Plot. 
The 18th century. A small Tatar village celebrate Sabantuy festival. Orthodox monks accompanied by soldiers appear to forcibly baptize the population of the village. Locals resist and soldiers commit a punitive action. The wife of peasant Bulat is killed by soldiers, his son Asfan is carried off. Bulat stays alone with his another son, Asma. 15 years after Bulat and Asma joined Pugachev rebellion and Bulat became famous as a defender of paupers. But his son Asfan, who was reared among nobles, get a commission and lead a punitive force, directed to suppress a rebellion in his motherland. 
Other facts.
It is known that after the premiere in Germany one White \E9migr\E9 Antonov-Ivanov managed to climb to the film projector and to destroy a film.
Links.
  -     .  ;
  "                    ".                                  ;

 

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4454800" title="Digvijay Singh" nonfiltered="281" processed="280" dbindex="450282">
Digvijay Singh is a senior Congress (I) politician in India and has been the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh state for two five-year terms. He was born on February 28, 1947 in the royal family of Raghogarh principality, in Guna district of Madhya Pradesh. He first became Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh on December 7, 1993 and continued to hold the post till Congress was voted out of power in the November 2003 State Assembly elections in the state. He is popularly known as Diggi Raja. 

Academic life.
He is a product of the Daly college ,indore,a public school established in 1882 . He is an engineering graduate from SGSITS in Indore. He is also a St. Stephen's College, Delhi alumni.

Political career.
He joined politics at the age of 24. He became the President of Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee in the year 1984. In 1980, he was elected Member of State Legislative Assembly. He became a Minister of State and later a Cabinet Minister under the MP Government headed by Arjun Singh in 1980-84. He was elected as a Member of Parliament in 1984 and 1991. He has been representing his hometown and constituency (Raghogarh) for many years in the State Assembly elections. However, the man known as "Diggy Raja" to his admirers as well as to his foes, was humiliated badly in the Madhya Pradesh State Assembly Election in December 2003, wherein the Congress was reduced to a strength of 37 members in a house of 230. The BJP captured power with a landslide mandate, securing a mammoth 173 seats. Interestingly, Digvijay Singh had vowed publicly and repeatedly not to take part in active politics for 10 years if he did not win the December 2004 elections. However, he did not keep his word and returned to politics after a very brief break. Ever since his career has just gone from bad to worse. He was appointed the Bihar in charge for the Congress in the November 2005 elections and claimed credit for forging a better alliance with Laloo Yadav than in the Feb 2005 elections. However, all his gambits backfired as the Congress was decimated in the elections, its strength falling to 8 (from 9) in a 243 member assembly. The election also marked a dramatic end to Laloo Yadav, one of India's most enigmatic and rustic politicians.

 Controversy .

In year 2001 Income tax authorties seized a diary from a liquor baron .They found the names of several officials and politicians of the state and money written against their names in the diary. There was one entry with just CM against the amount .It was not known and not found out of what state the CM the diary entry referred to. Digvijay Singh was chief minister then. He later promoted many officials whose names were figured in the diary to higher posts. 

Timeline.




References.
 Digvijay Singh's CV;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3870948" title="Ivu" nonfiltered="282" processed="281" dbindex="450283">
An Ivu, or ice shove is a surge of ice from the ocean onto the shore. They are caused by ocean currents and winds blowing multi-year ice onto the shore, creating piles up to 40 feet high. Some have described them as 'ice tsunamis'.

See also.
 Pictures of ice shoves;
 Video of ice shove in Newfoundland (youtube);






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="138349" title="Summitview, Washington" nonfiltered="283" processed="282" dbindex="450284">
Summitview is a census-designated place (CDP) in Yakima County, Washington, United States. The population was 900 at the 2000 census.

Based on per capita income, one of the more reliable measures of affluence, Summitview ranks 18th of 522 areas in the state of Washington to be ranked. It is also the highest rank achieved in Yakima County.

Geography.
Summitview is located at  (46.598447, -120.638403).

According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 6.7 km\B2 (2.6 mi\B2), all land.

Demographics.
As of the census of 2000, there were 900 people, 294 households, and 256 families residing in the CDP. The population density was 134.7/km\B2 (348.6/mi\B2). There were 308 housing units at an average density of 46.1/km\B2 (119.3/mi\B2). The racial makeup of the CDP was 94.33% White, 0.33% Native American, 0.22% Pacific Islander, 3.33% from other races, and 1.78% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 7.78% of the population.

There were 294 households out of which 45.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 79.3% were married couples living together, 5.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 12.9% were non-families. 9.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 2.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.06 and the average family size was 3.29.

In the CDP the population was spread out with 29.8% under the age of 18, 6.4% from 18 to 24, 27.0% from 25 to 44, 26.6% from 45 to 64, and 10.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females there were 100.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 103.9 males.

The median income for a household in the CDP was $66,944, and the median income for a family was $67,083. Males had a median income of $48,036 versus $25,139 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $36,301. About 2.8% of families and 2.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including none of those under age 18 and 11.5% of those age 65 or over.

External links.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3093393" title="M. C. Brennan" nonfiltered="284" processed="283" dbindex="450286">
Maire Caitlin Brennan is an American writer and performer born in Phoenix, Arizona on February 14, 1969.

 Background .
Brennan achieved minor regional success in film, television, music and radio as Mike Sortino before beginning a gender transition in the late 1980s. 
 
Brennan's first media exposure came as early as 1977, when she was a regular guest on Phoenix's KARZ-960 radio's "Let's Talk" program hosted by Bob Reidy, as the self-appointed "Official Representative from Constitution School." She generally provided wide-ranging (often unsolicited) "little professor" commentary to the amusement of the host and listeners.
 
Later, Brennan became a locally-recognized figure thanks to comical self-promotion stunts and prodigious work in stage, film, television, music and writing. Since the mid-1990s, she has primarily devoted herself to work as a writer, but periodically returns to acting, music and filmmaking.

Brennan is the daughter of noted session and touring musician Ron Dobbins, and the great-granddaughter of Ida Mae Bell Owen, a legendary seamstress who designed racing silks used in thoroughbred horse racing. Owen, her husband Bryan Wald Owen and daughter Parthenia were accomplished musicians who toured the midwest in the 1930s and 1940s. Bryan Wald Owen and his sister Mabel Owen were popular vaudevillians in the early 1900s.
 

 Film, Television and Theatre Work .
During high school and college, Brennan directed and starred in several short films including The Mike And Eric Movie, Spam Animals and The Man Called Bear: Hero At Large. A sporadic theatre, film and television acting career soon followed, including appearances in local commercials, independent features and bit parts in national productions such as Midnight Caller, The Doors, Northern Exposure and perhaps somewhat ironically, the 1985 feature Just One Of The Guys.  

Brennan began writing plays in high school, and several of her surreal one-act plays were produced in high school, college and community theatre productions. During the 1990s, challenged by the personal and societal difficulties inherent in gender transition, she made limited acting appearances, and while she remained a prolific writer, only a small portion of that material has been published or performed.
 
In 2000, Brennan resumed film work in earnest, directing Grandma Shoots, Grandma Scores, starring 99-year old basketball star (and Brennan's real-life great-grandmother) Mae Owen. In 2002, Brennan received the Arizona Commission on the Arts Screenwriting fellowship, and the following year, she won the Phoenix Film Festival's Best Screenplay award. In February 2006, Brennan filmed a brief appearance as a "lesbian Martha Stewart" in Jamie Babbit's feature film Itty Bitty Titty Committee, scheduled for release in early 2007. In September 2006, she was named a semifinalist in the Austin Film Festival screenwriting competition. Also in 2006, it was announced that Brennan would helm a feature-length documentary film on Phoenix's legendary Wallace and Ladmo Show.

 Fiction .
Brennan's first locally acclaimed writing was a 1980 serialized adventure, "The Adventures of Ziggle and Zod", which incorporated elements of science fiction, comedy, secret agent fiction and nonsequiter comedy. The stories established Brennan's hallmark style of incorporating both subtle and overt rapid-fire comedic references to literature, comics, film, television, history and politics. Soon thereafter, Brennan created The Dastardly Communist Plot, a genre-busting "pulp spectacular" about a group of misfit heroes led by a rock singer/superscientist/teenage loser that predated The Adventures Of Buckaroo Banzai by several years. It also spoofed the James Bond / Derek Flint secret agent/supervillain archetypes (indestructible characters, bizarre weaponry, evil cats) and settings (volcanic island, moonbase, space station) eerily similar to those used 15 years later in the Austin Powers films. Brennan eventually wrote four books in the series, which also drew from Paul Ryan O'Connor's fictionalized adventures of friend and mentor James "Bear" Peters, a writer and role-playing game designer known in gaming circles as The Man Called Bear. In 1983, Brennan directed a short film based on this material, The Man Called Bear: Hero At Large!

In high school, Brennan won numerous state journalism awards from the Arizona Interscholastic Press Association, and in 1986 won first place in the Journalism Education Association's national feature write-off. In 1988 Brennan became one of the inaugural music writers for the Zia Zine, the in-house music magazine of the Zia Records chain. Freelance writing jobs followed, as well as serialized novels, stage plays and other material.
 
In 2001, Brennan developed the "Comic Newsbriefs" news parody feature for Don Kahle's famed Comic News, based in Eugene, Oregon. During 2002 and 2003, she was also the sports columnist for Phoenix's ECHO magazine.

 Music career .
Brennan's music career began in earnest in 1986 with the release of an independent cassette, Last Gasp. A peripheral character in the Phoenix and Tempe music scene that spawned Galen Herod, Tone Set, Dead Hot Workshop and the Gin Blossoms, Brennan recorded several more independent cassettes during the 1980s.
 
For much of her career, Brennan's music was only available on cassette sold at shows, through "mail art" or cassette subculture zines, and she was often known to customize each cassette with unique performances and reworkings of her music, cover songs, commentary, sound collages and occasional pranks. Although titles and cover art are often uniform, virtually no two cassettes from the mail-order era are identical and no "master" was kept.

In the 1990s, she lived and performed in San Francisco and later Seattle, making folk-pop music in the vein of Townes Van Zandt, Elliot Smith, Harry Nilsson, Aimee Mann and early David Bowie, and recording the independent CDs M. C. Brennan (etc) in 1994, San Francisco Sessions (produced by former James Brown producer Susie Foot) in 1995 and Black Diamond in 1997. 

A small amount of post-2000 material has appeared for download on Brennan's now-defunct MP3.com page and file sharing networks, but nothing has been officially released.

 The Loons and the Loon News .
The leader of a Phoenix DIY improv comedy/performance art collective called The Loons, Brennan began directing short films in 1982 and the following year, in collaboration with cartoonist Eric Paul Johnson, she founded a satirical "underground newspaper" called the Loon News, a forerunner of The Onion. The Loon News became popular among Arizona teens, and distribution expanded to several other cities including Boston, Massachusetts and Hawthorne, California. Many of the original Loons still remain in close contact, and the Loon News is still in production.

 Trivia .
 
Brennan is a direct descendant of Alexander Graham Bell and an extremely distant cousin of Michael Nesmith of The Monkees.

In 1985, she appeared on KPNX-TV's "Finn and Friends" program with Weird Al Yankovic.

Brennan can be briefly seen in U2's feature documentary Rattle and Hum.

Brennan is no relation to Irish singer Maire Brennan. She has described the similar names as a coincidence.

In 2005, she posed for photographer Jana Marcus' acclaimed photojournalism project Transfigurations, documenting the lives and stories of transgendered men and women. In 2006 the touring show appeared in San Jose, San Francisco and Buffalo, New York, and opens at the I Gallery in New York City in early 2007.
 

 External links .
The Loon News Online;
 
M. C. Brennan Biography/Homepage;
 
M. C. Brennan's imdb.com page;
 
Grandma Shoots, Grandma Scores on Archive.org;

"As Seen On TV" interview, Phoenix Magazine, June 2006;











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3727582" title="L'Espresso" nonfiltered="285" processed="284" dbindex="450287">
L'Espresso is a major Italian weekly news magazine with national distribution.  It is one of the two most prominent Italian weeklies, the other being Panorama.  

L'espresso is published weekly and has a website with news and blogs. An electronic edition is also available online, but only to subscribers.  Subscriptions cost \A4 60,42 per year for Italian residents.
 
The magazine is based in Milan, and the current editor is Daniela Hamaui.

External links.
Official website;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2998770" title="Glenlyon Campbell" nonfiltered="286" processed="285" dbindex="450288">
Glenlyon Archibald Campbell (October 3, 1863   October 22, 1917) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada.  He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1903 to 1908, and in the Canadian House of Commons from 1908 to 1911.  Campbell was a member of the Conservative Party of Canada.

Campbell was born at Fort Pelly, in what was then known as the Northwest Territories.  His father, Robert Campbell, was a Scotsman who served as Chief Factor for the Hudson Bay Company, the dominant power in the region.  The younger Campbell was educated at Glasgow Academy and the Merchiston Castle School in Edinburgh, and worked as a farmer and rancher upon returning to Canada.  He helped to establish the community of Gilbert Plains in 1884, after purchasing the first house constructed in the community from Gilbert Ross (for whom the community is named).

He first campaigned for the Manitoba legislature in the 1892 provincial election as a support of the opposition Conservative Party, and lost to Theodore Arthur Burrows by nine votes in Dauphin.  Burrows described himself as a "Liberal-Conservative", but endorsed the Liberal government of Thomas Greenway; he later joined the Liberal Party outright.  Campbell lost to Burrows again in the 1896 election, by twelve votes.

He was first elected to the legislature in the 1903 election, defeated a Liberal candidate by 202 votes in Gilbert Plains.  He served as a backbench supporter of Rodmond Palen Roblin's government, and was re-elected without opposition in the 1907 election.

Campbell resigned from the provincial legislature in 1908 to campaign in the 1908 federal election.  Contesting the riding of Dauphin, he defeated his old nemesis Theodore Arthur Burrows in 217 votes to win the seat.  The Liberal Party won a majority government in this election under Wilfrid Laurier, and Campbell served as an opposition member for the next three years.

He lost his seat to Liberal Robert Cruise by 748 votes in the 1911 election, even as the Conservative Party won a majority government under Robert Borden.  He died six years later.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7272790" title="The Unmasking" nonfiltered="287" processed="286" dbindex="450289">

The Unmasking' was a 1914 American silent short film starring William Garwood, Harry De Vere, Jack Richardson Vivian Rich and Louise Lester, Charlotte Burton and  
Harry von Meter  


External links.

;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7736236" title="Santa Clara Indian Reservation" nonfiltered="288" processed="287" dbindex="450290">
The Santa Clara Indian Reservation is an Indian reservation in north-central New Mexico, USA. It is the homeland of a branch of the Pueblo tribe of Native Americans. The reservation lies on 198.729 km\B2 (76.73 sq mi) of southern Rio Arriba, northeastern Sandoval, and northern Santa Fe Counties. It includes the community of Santa Clara Pueblo, as well as parts of three other communities. The total population living on reservation land as of the 2000 census was 10,658 persons. Most of the population lives in the northeastern corner of the reservation. The largest community on reservation land is the city of Espa\F1ola, although a part of the city is not on reservation territory.

Communities.
Espa\F1ola (most, population 5,681);
Santa Clara Pueblo;
Santa Cruz (part, population 266);
Sombrillo (part, population 157);

References.
Santa Clara Pueblo, New Mexico United States Census Bureau;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="602210" title="John Goodricke" nonfiltered="289" processed="288" dbindex="450291">
John Goodricke (September 17 1764   April 20 1786) was an eminent and profoundly deaf amateur astronomer. He was born in Groningen in the Netherlands, but lived most of his life in England. He was named after his grandfather Sir John Goodricke.

He is best known for his observations of the variable star Algol (Beta Persei) in 1782. ('Variable' means that it appears to turn 'on and off'.) 

Although several stars were already known to vary in apparent magnitude, Goodricke was the first to propose a mechanism to account for this. He suggested that Algol is what is now known as an eclipsing binary. He presented his findings to the Royal Society in May 1783, and for this work, the Society awarded him the Copley Medal for that year. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society on April 16 1786. He never learned of this honour however, as he died four days later, probably from pneumonia.

Goodricke was profoundly deaf through most of his life, due to scarlet fever in early childhood. His parents sent him to Thomas Braidwood's Academy, a school for the deaf in Edinburgh, and then, in 1778, to the Warrington Academy. 

After leaving the Academy, he returned to live with his parents in York. There, he became friends with Edward Pigott, whose father Nathaniel Pigott had built a sophisticated private observatory. Edward was already interested in variable stars, and he gave Goodricke a list of those that he thought were worthy of observation.

Between October 2005 and March 2006, Sean Ellingham and James Valner from the University of York undertook a project to find the position of Goodricke's observatory using the data he recorded. A 1949 study by Sidney Melmore has shown that he worked from Treasurer's House, near York Minster. By recreating his observations, the two students were able to conclude that he had observed from the Eastern-most window of the second floor, looking south towards the Minster.

Goodricke College at the University of York is named after Goodricke. 
There is also a modern sculpture named Algol in the grounds.

 External links .
Goodricke's life and astronomical work. Features animations of different types of variable stars.
Goodricke College;














Goodricke is  discussed as one of the strange astronomer stories along with people like Carl Sagan dying of a blood disease, Hale interacting with elves (according to Notre Dame Physics Staff Person article on the internet and some databases, Kris Kriscianas' work), and Shoemaker getting in a car accident. Articles will sometimes mention a relationship between Goodricke's pneumonia and his observation of certain objects. The question of association between observation and pathology is certainly an interesting one.

James Timothy Thomas Struck
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5098937" title="Micha? ?liwi?ski" nonfiltered="290" processed="289" dbindex="450292">






Micha   liwi ski (born 5 February 1970 in Dobrotvir, Ukraine) is a Polish flatwater canoer won six world championship titles over his long career.

An ethnic Pole from Ukraine,  liwi ski represented the USSR at the 1988 Olympics, winning the Canadian canoe C-1 500m silver medal at the age of only eighteen.

Over the next three years he dominated the event, winning consecutive world championship gold medals in 1989, 1990 and 1991. However in the 1992 Olympics he had to settle for another silver medal behind Nikolay Bukhalov of Bulgaria.

The break-up of the Soviet Union affected  liwi ski's career greatly as the newly-independent Ukraine did not win any world championship gold medals during the 1990's.  liwi ski, now specialising in the short sprint 200m races, was still regarded as a top competitor at international events but he endured a frustrating sequence of four world championship bronze medals. With no 200m races included in the Olympics he competed in the C-1 500m at Atlanta 1996, finishing just outside the medals in fourth place.

In 2001 he accepted an invitation to switch to representing Poland, a decision which dramatically revived his career. Although in his thirties he went on to win three more world titles. With partner Marcin Kobierski he became C-2 1000m champion in 2001 in Pozna , Poland. In 2002 they retained their crown in Seville. 

 liwi ski's build-up to the Athens Olympics was beset with problems, not of his own making. In 2003 his partner Kobierski tested positive in a drugs test as did his most obvious left-handed replacement Micha  Gajownik. Both were given two-year bans, ruling them out of the Olympics. 

After much debate young hopeful Lukasz Woszczynski was chosen to partner  liwi ski. At their first major competition together they finished in fourth place at the 2003 World Championships in Gainesville, USA. In 2004 they became C-2 1000m European champions in front of their home crowd in Pozna . At the Athens Olympics they finished seventh in the C-2 1000m final, the exhausted Woszczynski collapsing at the end of the race.

The partnership was retained for the 2005 season. They took the C-2 500m silver medal at the European championships in July but Woszczynski was then injured and unable to take part in the World Championships in Zagreb. It seemed as if  liwi ski would be left without a boat. However, when a member of Poland's four-man (C4) 100m crew, Arkadiusz Tonski, also had to pull out injured,  liwi ski was called up as a last-minute replacement. The Polish four, ironically including the now rehabitated Gajownik, edged out the Romanian crew to take the gold medal. For the thirty-five year-old  liwi ski it was the first C-4 gold of his long career. 

 liwi ski is a member of the Spojnia Warsaw club. He is 177 cm (5'10") tall and weighs 89 kg (196 lbs).







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1034506" title="Omid" nonfiltered="291" processed="290" dbindex="450293">
Omid is a Persian word meaning 'hope.' It is also a common name among Iranian males. 

Famous persons named Omid:
 Omid Memarian, Iranian journalist and social activist;
 Omid Abtahi, Iranian-American actor;
 Omid Djalili, British born Iranian stand-up comedian and actor;
 Omid Kordestani, Senior Vice President for Worldwide Sales and Field Operations at Google;

In music:
 Omid (also known as OD), Los Angeles underground hip hop producer;
 Omid 16B, London electronic music producer / DJ;

Other uses:
 Omid is also the name of a website which documents many victims of the Iranian revolution.

 External links .

 Boroumand Foundation: Omid, a memorial in defense of human rights;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8119213" title="Jos\E9 Moreno Mora" nonfiltered="292" processed="291" dbindex="450294">


Jose Moreno is a Colombian soccer player of Club Atletico Independiente. In 2007, Independiente moved to acquire him for $900,000 from America de Cali. Moreno also played for Dynamo Kyiv on loan from America de Cali.  He is an Striker. 

Notes.










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2990041" title="Deeper and Deeper" nonfiltered="293" processed="292" dbindex="450295">


"Deeper and Deeper" was the second single released from Madonna's 1992 album Erotica.

Song information.

 



The song was probably the album's strongest dance number and it came as little surprise when it was released as the second single from Erotica in late 1992; the song went top ten on both sides of the Atlantic (not to mention topping the Billboard dance charts). In the United Kingdom, a tabloid backlash began which would last for most of 1993 and the song ended a five year run of top five hits. Many fans have argued that had Madonna changed her overtly sexual image and released "Deeper and Deeper" as the lead-off single from the album, the whole Erotica project may have seen more commercial success. The song itself enjoyed much popularity at the time of release and has since become a fan favorite.

The song has been remixed by Shep Pettibone who both co-wrote and produced the track and also by David Morales. Some of their remixes feature use of the pitch shift. In Pettibone's "Classic 12" version, when Madonna sings "pretend", the "tend", which echoes at the same pitch in the original, is lowered quite a few octaves, raised to normal for a few seconds, and is raised to an almost child-like pitch for about 3 or 4 seconds before going to the final line. In Morales' club mix, after she sings, "never gonna hide it again", the pitch in "deep" is alternated between the original and a slightly lowered version for nearly 32 seconds. In the dub version ("David's Love Dub"), Madonna's heavily-phased "deeper and deeper" is at normal pitch for the first 15 seconds of the song, then gets lowered an octave until the bass starts a few seconds later, however, you can barely understand her, because the loop's phasedness distorts her words quite a lot.

The song was "Re-Invented" on her Re-Invention Tour. The song was a slow cut jazz version with trumpets playing. It was one of the fan favorites on the tour.

 Video .

Madonna's video for "Deeper and Deeper" is an ode to Andy Warhol, shot in near identical style to many of his films. In the video Madonna plays Edie Sedgwick. At the time of its release few understood the homage of the video, and it remains one of Madonna's most alluring videos (she did not include it in her recent video compilation (1993:1999).

Madonna's good friend and actress Debi Mazar makes a cameo in the video.

Chart performance.


Track listing and formats.
UK CD Single;
 Deeper and Deeper (Album Edit) (4:54);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Deep Makeover Mix) (9:09);
 Deeper and Deeper (David's Klub Mix) (7:40);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Classic 12") (7:27);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Fierce Deeper Dub) (6:01);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Deep Beats) (2:57);

U.S. CD single;
 Album Edit (4:54) ;
 Instrumental (5:31);

U.S. Maxi Single;
 Deeper and Deeper (Album Edit) (4:54);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Deep Makeover Mix) (9:09);
 Deeper and Deeper (David's Klub Mix) (7:40);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Classic 12") (7:27);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Fierce Deeper Dub) (6:01);
 Deeper and Deeper (David's Love Dub) (5:39);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Deep Beats) (2:58);

EP;
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Deep Makeover Mix);
 Deeper and Deeper (David's Klub Mix);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Classic 12);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Fierce Deeper Dub);
 Deeper and Deeper (David's Love Dub);
 Deeper and Deeper (Shep's Deep Beats);
 Bad Girl (Extended Mix);
 Erotica (Kenlou B-Boy Instrumental);
 Erotica (Underground Tribal Beats);
 Erotica (Wo Dub);
 Erotica (House Instrumental);
 Erotica (Bass Hit Dub);

 References .
Mad-eyes.net - "Deeper and Deeper" Single Page - last accessed on October 24, 2005;
;













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1988865" title="Sigma class corvette" nonfiltered="294" processed="293" dbindex="450296">
The Sigma class corvette is a patrol boat with ocean capabilities.

 Modular design .
The basic design, the Sigma Patrol Series, can vary as the hull segments are designed as components. Ships can vary in the number of hull segments and in the order in which they are placed. Sigma stands for Ship Integrated Geometrical Modularity Approach. 

 Users .
 Indonesia has ordered 2 corvettes and 2 more will be built in Vlissingen.
 The Netherlands has discussed to replace some frigates with corvettes similar to these, but has decided to build Ocean Patrol Vessels (OPV's) that have a different design.

 Indonesian variant .
First cutting steel conducted in October 2004, christened on September 16th 2006. Expected commissioning in 2007. Building of next two corvettes will commence in October 2006 in Vlissingen (not in Surabaya as was stated earlier).
Ships of class.


Indonesian Specifications.
 Model: SCHELDE NAVAL PATROL 9113;
 Length: 90.71 meters;
 Width: 13.02 meters;
 Draft: 3.6 meters;
 Displacement: 1692 ton;
 Max speed: 28 knots;
 Cruising speed: 18 knots;
 Engines: 2 x diesel engines at 8910 kW max power each; twin shaft with passive roll stablisation;
 Endurance: 300 nm @ cruising speed;
 Weapons: ;
 Surface to air missile: MBDA Mistral TETRAL;
 Surface to surface missile: MBDA Excocet MM40 block 2;
 Main Gun: Oto-Melara 76 mm (A position);
 Auxiliary Gun: 2 x 20 mm Vector G12 (B position);
 Torpedo: 3A 244S Mode II/MU 90 in 2 x B515 launchers;
 Sensors;
 Combat System: Thales TACTICOS;
 Main search radar: MW08 3D multibeam surveillance radar;
 Fire control radar: LIROD Mk2 tracking radar;
 Data Link: LINK Y Mk2 datalink system;
 Sonar: Thales Kingklip medium frequency active/passive ASW hull mounted sonar;
 Naval Communications: Thales/Signaal FOCON;
 Decoy/Chaff Launcher: TERMA SKWS;
 Integrated Platform Management System: Imtech UniMACs 3000 Integrated Bridge System;
 Accommodations: 80;
 Cost: Dutch Government lend aid 340 million euro to Indonesian Government for two ships.

References.
 24-Oct-04, Thales to supply key systems for new corvettes Indonesian Navy worth 60m euro. Accessed: 28-Nov-2006 ;
 Jane's International Defense Review, Vol 37, November 2004,  Indonesian corvettes receive IPMS;
 Indonesian Specifications from Schelde Shipbuilding ;
 Product Brochure of the SCHELDE NAVAL PATROL 9113 ;

 See also .
 Pantserschip;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6453618" title="Eighteen Arms of Wushu" nonfiltered="295" processed="294" dbindex="450297">
The Eighteen Arms () is a list of the eighteen main weapons of chinese martial arts. The origin of the list is unclear and there have been disputes with regards to what the eighteen weapons actually are.

The eighteen arms consist of:
 Dao ( );
 Qiang ( );
 Jian ( );
 Pudao;
 Axe ( );
 Battle axe;
 Hook sword ( );
 Fork ( );
 Chain whip ( );
 Mace;
 War hammer;
 Talon;
 Trident-halberd;
 Cudgel;
 Long-handled spear;
 Short cudgel;
 Gun ( );
 Meteor hammer;

External link.
  The Eighteen Weapons;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4655311" title="Wait and Bleed" nonfiltered="296" processed="295" dbindex="450298">


Wait and Bleed is a single by the band Slipknot on their second album Slipknot (self titled).

This song was recorded before James Root joined Slipknot.

A rumored meaning is that it is about a man who is dreaming that he is in a bath tub with his wrists cut, but soon wakes up and finds out that he's not actually dreaming. But instead of getting help, he just "waits and bleeds". However, this has not been verified by Slipknot nor is there any evidence in the song that it is about a suicide. Slipknot have commented in an interview  that their songs are general and meant for the listener to gather his/her own meaning from them.

This is one of the few pre-"Subliminal Verses" Slipknot songs with little or no swearing. The only "swear" word is in the lyric, "How the hell did I get here/Something about this so very wrong"

The song was ranked #36 on VH1's Top 40 Metal Songs. .

There are several different versions of this song:

Wait and Bleed which can be found in "Slipknot" album.
Wait and Bleed  from Slipknot's "Spit It Out";
Wait and Bleed Live in London ;
Wait and Bleed Live from the Slipknot 9.0 Live Album;
Wait & Bleed (Terry Date mix) - Scream 3 soundtrack-;
Wait & Bleed (radio edit) - Wait & Bleed single-;
Wait & Bleed (callout hook) - Wait & Bleed promo-;
Wait & Bleed (Corey & Anders) - Unreleased-;
Wait & Bleed Live from Slipknot's Disasterpieces DVD;
Wait & Bleed rare animated music video from Disasterpieces DVD;

The video versions replace the screamed verses with alternative metal like sung verses, except for the last part of the song which is left unaltered. The word "hell" isn't censored from any versions of the song.

Notes.












ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2105962" title="Fort Bend Independent School District" nonfiltered="297" processed="296" dbindex="450299">
The Fort Bend Independent School District, also Fort Bend ISD or FBISD, is a school district system in the U.S. state of Texas based in the city of Sugar Land.

The district spans 174 square miles covering almost all of the city of Sugar Land, the city of Meadows Place, the Fort Bend county portion of Missouri City, Arcola, small sections of Houston, small sections of Pearland (including some of Shadow Creek Ranch), the unincorporated communities of Clodine, DeWalt, Mission Bend, and Fresno, and the Fort Bend county portion of the community of Rosharon. Fort Bend ISD is the ninth largest public school system in the state of Texas and third largest within the Houston Sugar Land Baytown Metropolitan Area.

Fort Bend Independent School District was created by the consolidation of the Sugar Land ISD and Missouri City ISD in 1959. Fort Bend ISD has ten high schools, the newest being Travis High School. eleven middle schools, and thirty-seven elementary schools. The school district also has the Technical Education Center, the M. R. Wood Alternative Education Center, and the Progressive High School to serve a variety of vocational interests as well as special learning needs. 

Fort Bend ISD is the largest employer in Fort Bend County with more than 7,800 district employees.

A portion of Stafford was formerly a part of Fort Bend ISD, but it broke away and formed the Stafford Municipal School District. Residents in Stafford's ETJ, however, are served by Fort Bend ISD, not Stafford MSD.

All houses or residential areas in Fort Bend ISD are assigned to an elementary school, a middle school, and a high school.

History.
Fort Bend ISD was formed when Sugar Land ISD and Missouri City ISD merged after an election on April 18, 1959.

Recognitions.
Seventy percent of the district s campuses received an Exemplary or Recognized rating from the Texas Education Agency in 2002. That same year, the district was named a Recognized District by the Texas Education Agency for the second consecutive year, making it one of the largest public school districts in Texas to receive that rating. 

Austin High School and Clements High School, both in Sugar Land, have been recognized by Texas Monthly magazine in its list of the top 10 high schools in the state of Texas. In addition, Clements, Austin, and Elkins high schools ranked 313th, 626th, and 702nd, respectively, among the top 1000 schools in the United States by Newsweek.

Fort Bend ISD has been named one of the top 100 School Districts in the Nation for a Fine Arts Education, according to a nation-wide survey of public and private school programs.

Schools.
High schools.
 Stephen F. Austin High School (Sugar Land);
 George H. W. Bush High School (Unincorporated Fort Bend County);
 William P. Clements High School (Sugar Land);
 John F. Dulles High School (Sugar Land);
 Lawrence E. Elkins High School (Missouri City);
 L. V. Hightower High School (Missouri City);
 Isaac H. Kempner High School (Sugar Land);
 Thurgood Marshall High School (Missouri City);
 William B. Travis High School (Unincorporated Fort Bend County);
 Willowridge High School (Houston);

Middle schools.
 Baines Middle School (opened Fall 2006, Unincorporated Fort Bend County);
 John F. Dulles Middle School (Sugar Land);
 First Colony Middle School (Sugar Land);
 Fort Settlement Middle School (Sugar Land);
 Macario Garcia Middle School (Sugar Land);
 Hodges Bend Middle School (Unincorporated Fort Bend County);
 Lake Olympia Middle School (Missouri City);
 Christa McAuliffe Middle School (Houston);
 Missouri City Middle School (Missouri City);
 Quail Valley Middle School (Missouri City);
 Sartartia Middle School (Sugar Land);
 Sugar Land Middle School (Sugar Land);

Elementary schools.
 Austin Parkway Elementary School;
 Barbara Jordan Elementary School;
 Barrington Place Elementary School;
 Blue Ridge Elementary School (Houston);
 Brazos Bend Elementary School;
 Briargate Elementary School (Houston);
 Burton Elementary School;
 Colony Bend Elementary School;
 Colony Meadows Elementary School;
 Commonwealth Elementary School;
 Rita Drabek Elementary School;
 Dulles Elementary School;
 Arizona Fleming Elementary School;
 Glover Elementary School;
 Lula Goodman Elementary School;
 Highlands Elementary School;
 Hunters Glen Elementary School;
 E.A. Jones Elementary School;
 Barbara Jordan Elementary School;
 Lakeview Elementary School;
 Lantern Lane Elementary School;
 Lexington Creek Elementary School;
 Meadows Elementary School;
 Mission Bend Elementary School;
 Mission Glen Elementary School;
 Mission West Elementary School;
 Oyster Creek Elementary School;
 Palmer Elementary School;
 Pecan Grove Elementary School;
 Quail Valley Elementary School;
 Ridgegate Elementary School (Houston);
 Ridgemont Elementary School (Houston);
 Scanlan Oaks Elementary School;
 Settlers Way Elementary School;
 Sienna Crossing Elementary School;
 Sugar Mill Elementary School;
 Townewest Elementary School;
 Walker Station Elementary School;

Other schools.
 Progressive High School;
 Technical Education Center;
 M. R. Wood Alternative Education Center;

Former schools.
 Staffordshire Elementary School (Stafford);

 Gifted and Talented Mentorship Program .
The GT Mentorship Program is part of the district's Gifted and Talented curriculum.  This course is one honors credit in social studies as an advanced studies course.  Students participate in a semester long seminar course followed by a semester long field experience working one-on-one with a mentor in the student's chosen field.  During the fall semester, students gain self-directed learning by conducting in-depth research on a topic that has particular interest to them as well as going on informational interviews in the community, developing a resume, and improving their professional skills.  In this course idea production, not replication is stressed.  Students must be prolific with original ideas, especially with regard to their final projects.

The Mentorship Program is offered to juniors and seniors in FBISD high schools who have been identified as gifted and talented.  Students must complete an application process during their sophomore or junior year to be considered for the program the following school year.  Student applications are screened by a selection committee to determine which students will be invited for an individual interview.  Class size is limited to a maximum of 15 students and is highly selective.  The Mentorship Program offers academic challenge and requires a high level of student responsibility.  The students selected are outstanding in their high school classes academically as well as in extracurricular activities.  The rigorous curriculum and demands of this course require students to be focused, goal-oriented, self-motivated, mature, determined to pursue enriched learning, and passionate about a particular field or topic.

See also.
 Sugar Land, Texas;
 Houston, Texas;
 Missouri City, Texas;
 Meadows Place, Texas;
 Pearland, Texas;
 Arcola, Texas;

External links.
 Fort Bend Independent School District website;
SOS -- Independent school activist website;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5339576" title="City of Rockford Pipe Band" nonfiltered="298" processed="297" dbindex="450300">

The City of Rockford Pipe Band (USA) was founded in January of 2000 and made its performance debut on Saint Patrick's Day just three months later.        

Since that first appearance the band has been active in Highland Games competitions, stage performances, parades, memorials, festivals, charitable events and fund raisers, as well as providing pipers for weddings, funerals and special occasions.

The band is affiliated with competitive Highland Dancers (Highland Dance) and often appears combining Highland Music and Dance. 

In 2003, the City of Rockford Pipe Band earned the title of MWPBA Champion Supreme Pipe Band (Grade 5) by placing 1st in both the Midwest (Springfield, Illinois) and Regional (Oberlin, Ohio) Championships. In 2006 the band captured the MWPBA Champion Supreme designation (Grade 4) and received its 5th consecutive Rockford Area Music Industry Award (RAMI) in the World Music category, and is slated for induction into
the "RAMI Hall of Fame" in 2007.

Members hail from Rockford, Illinois and the surrounding area, the majority of which are graduates of the City of Rockford Pipe Band School of Piping and Drumming through Rock Valley College.

As of 2006 the band fields both Grade 5 and Grade 3 competition units.  

The City of Rockford Pipe Band is committed to making the tradition of Highland Music and Dance highly visible in the Rockford community, the greater Illinois/Wisconsin region, the USA and abroad.

See also.
Great Highland Bagpipe;
Bagpipes;
Types of bagpipes;
Pipe Band;

 External links .
Official web site;
Official Myspace;
MWPBA - Midwest Pipe Band Association Web Site;
Rockford Area Music Industry Web Site - RAMI Awards;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5662717" title="Ibrahim Hj Yaacob" nonfiltered="299" processed="298" dbindex="450301">



Ibrahim Hj Yaacob is a Malayan politician. Leader of Young Malays Union or Kesatuan Melayu Muda (KMM) who supported Japanese to attack Malaya during World War II. He was later captured by British forces in Singapore on 1942.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3800988" title="Choroideremia" nonfiltered="300" processed="299" dbindex="450302">
Choroideremia is an X-linked recessive retinal degenerative disease that leads to the degeneration of the choriocapillaris, the retinal pigment epithelium, and the photoreceptor of the eye.  Choroideremia is caused by the deletion of the Rab escort protein 1 (REP1). Rab escort protein 2 (REP2) is 75% identical and can almost compensate for the loss of REP1. The REPs are essential for the prenylation of Rab proteins. Studies have shown that there is a build up of unprenylated Rab27 in lymphoblasts from Choroideremia patients.

Generally, only men show symptoms of this disease, although in rare cases some women also acquire it.  Initially a person suffering from choroideremia has night blindness, which begins in youth.  As the disease progresses, a CHM sufferer loses their peripheral vision and depth perception, eventually losing all sight by middle age.  In some cases, a severe loss of acuity and color perception become evident as the disease progresses.

The link between the loss of REP1 and the build up of unprenylated Rab27 and the degeneration of the eye is unknown as yet.  

At this time, there is no treatment or cure for this disease.


See also.
 Griscelli syndrome. Type two Griscelli syndrome is caused by the loss of Rab27. It has completely different symptoms from Choroideremia;

External links.
 Choroideremia - Geneva Foundation for Medical Education and Research;
 Choroideremia Research Foundation;
 ;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="110920" title="Aviston, Illinois" nonfiltered="301" processed="300" dbindex="450303">
Aviston is a village in Clinton County, Illinois.  As of the 2000 census, the village had a population of 1,231.

Geography.
Aviston is located at  (38.609177, -89.606293).

According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of 2.8 km\B2 (1.1 mi\B2), all land.

Demographics.
As of the census of 2000, there were 1,231 people, 456 households, and 336 families residing in the village.  The population density was 432.1/km\B2 (1,115.8/mi\B2).  There were 465 housing units at an average density of 163.2/km\B2 (421.5/mi\B2).  The racial makeup of the village was 98.62% White, 0.41% African American, 0.08% Native American, 0.16% Asian, 0.41% from other races, and 0.32% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.73% of the population.

There were 456 households out of which 37.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.6% were married couples living together, 10.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 26.1% were non-families. 23.2% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.54 and the average family size was 2.99.

In the village the population was spread out with 24.7% under the age of 18, 8.3% from 18 to 24, 31.8% from 25 to 44, 17.4% from 45 to 64, and 17.8% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females there were 95.4 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 86.5 males.

The median income for a household in the village was $47,917, and the median income for a family was $58,375. Males had a median income of $37,768 versus $26,518 for females. The per capita income for the village was $20,395.  About 3.5% of families and 2.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 1.3% of those under age 18 and 6.5% of those age 65 or over.

External links.


Official Website;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4676604" title="West Lancashire local elections" nonfiltered="302" processed="301" dbindex="450304">
One third of West Lancashire Council councillors are elected three years in every four.

Political control.

No overall control 1973 - 1976;
Conservative 1976 - 1986;
No overall control 1986 - 1987;
Conservative 1987 - 1991;
No overall control 1991 - 1994;
Labour 1994 - 2002;
Conservative 2002 - ;

Council elections.

West Lancashire Council election 1998;
West Lancashire Council election 1999;
West Lancashire Council election 2000;
West Lancashire Council election 2002;
West Lancashire Council election 2003;
West Lancashire Council election 2004;
West Lancashire Council election 2006;

By-election results.











































































External links.
West Lancashire Council;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="864728" title="Beef tenderloin" nonfiltered="303" processed="302" dbindex="450305">

For other uses, see Beef Wellington (disambiguation).;

Beef tenderloin, or eye fillet (New Zealand and Australia), is cut from the middle of a cow. As with all quadrupeds, the tenderloin refers to the Psoas major muscle along the central spine portion, which more or less hangs between the shoulder blade and hip socket. This muscle tissue does very little work, so it is the most tender part of the cow. The tenderloin can either be cut for roasts or for steaks.

When left whole, the tenderloin is known as a filet or a "Chateaubriand". When sliced, it forms various steaks. Those toward the loin end of the piece, when cut into slices one to two inches thick, are known as filets. Sometimes, the cuts are called filet mignon, while at other times filet mignon refers to a dish made with a beef tenderloin filet, not the cut itself. Other portions of the tenderloin, when cut into steaks, are typically called tenderloin steaks, not filets.

Since it is the least stringy part of the animal, most beef dishes requiring high quality meat, such as steak tartare, are ideally made from the tenderloin.

Beef Wellington.
Beef Wellington  filet of beef tenderloin coated with p\E2t\E9 de foie gras and a duxelles of mushrooms that are then all wrapped in puff pastry.  Beef Wellington is named after Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington. Some people suggest this was due to his love of a dish of beef, truffles, mushrooms, Madeira wine, and p\E2t\E9 cooked in pastry, but there is no evidence to say for sure whether it was any more than a patriotic gesture by an unconnected chef. Sometimes, "wellington" can also denote any meat dish that is prepared similarly, the most common variations being Sausage Wellington and Salmon Wellington.












ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3013254" title="Susan Sheehan" nonfiltered="304" processed="303" dbindex="450306">
Susan Sheehan (nee Margulies) (born August 24, 1937), is a U.S. journalist. 

Born in Vienna, Austria, she won the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction in 1983 for her book Is There No Place on Earth for Me?. The book details the experiences of a young New York woman diagnosed with schizophrenia as she went in and out of a variety of treatment settings. Portions of the book were published in the New Yorker magazine, for which she has written frequently since the 1970s.

Sheehan is also known for writing "A Welfare Mother" in 1976; she returned to this topic in 1993, with a book, Life for Me Ain't Been No Crystal Stair, on the child welfare system. She is the wife of journalist Neil Sheehan, who also won a Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction (in 1989) for "A Bright Shining Lie."







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1925199" title="Music of Irkutsk" nonfiltered="305" processed="304" dbindex="450307">

The city of Irkutsk is the administrative center of Irkutsk Oblast, both of which produced several famous popular musicians and have a number of styles of folk music.  Musicians from Irkutsk include the rock bands Bely Ostrog, Printsip Neopredelyonnosti, and Chyorno-Belye Snimki .  The city of Irkutsk has long been a center for musical development in Siberia.

Music institutions.
The Irkutsk Philharmonic Orchestra was founded in the 1850s.  The first major school of musical education was founded in 1899, followed a few years later by the opening of the Irkutsk branch of the Imperial Russian Musical Society.  Other music institutions include the Irkutsk Chamber Orchestra .

References.
;
;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7379765" title="House at 132 Baltic Circle" nonfiltered="306" processed="305" dbindex="450308">



The House at 132 Baltic Circle is a historic home in the Davis Islands neighborhood of Tampa, Florida, United States. It is located at 132 Baltic Circle. On August 3, 1989, it was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.

References and external links.
 Hillsborough County listings at National Register of Historic Places;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5920572" title="Safe In New York City" nonfiltered="307" processed="306" dbindex="450309">



Safe In New York City is a song by popular hard rock group AC/DC. It is found on their 2000 album Stiff Upper Lip. The song is also a single.

The video to the song shows the band playing a busy tunnel in the city, surrounded and guarded by a lot of armed police guards.

Single track listing.
 Safe In New York City;
 Cyberspace;
 Back in Black (Live, Plaza De Toros, Madrid) Young, M. Young, B. Johnson;

All songs by A. Young and M. Young except where noted.

Personnel.
Brian Johnson- Vocals;
Angus Young- Lead Guitar;
Malcolm Young- Rhythm Guitar;
Cliff Williams- Bass Guitar;
Phil Rudd- Drums;

External links.
Lyrics at Rock Magic;
Music Video at AOL (Click the title);



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7381686" title="Barotropic cyclone" nonfiltered="308" processed="307" dbindex="450310">
Barotropic cyclones are those where isotherms are parallel to height lines on a map at a constant pressure surface, or at the surface, parallel to isobars.  Tropical cyclones and cutoff cyclones (occluded and formerly occluded cyclones) both qualify as barotropic, though due to differences in their vertical wind structure and temperature profiles, cutoffs are referred to as "barotropically cold" and tropical cyclones are call "barotropically warm". 


 References .










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6750243" title="Denaturation midpoint" nonfiltered="309" processed="308" dbindex="450311">


Assuming two-state protein folding, denaturation midpoint is defined as that temperature (Tm) or denaturant concentration (Cm) at which both the folded and unfolded states are equally populated. 

If the widths of the folded and unfolded wells are assumed to be equal both these states will have identical free energies at the midpoint. However, for natural proteins this is not the case. There is an inherent asymmetry as evidenced by the difference in heat capacities between them - the folded ensemble has a lower heat capacity (in other words, lower fluctuations thus indicating a narrower well) than the unfolded ensemble. This would mean that the free energy of the folded state is lower at the denaturation midpoint than the unfolded state. In such a scenario, the temperature at which both the wells have identical free energies is termed the characteristic temperature (To).

References.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4881522" title="Revolution (roller coaster)" nonfiltered="310" processed="309" dbindex="450312">

Revolution is a steel roller coaster made by Schwarzkopf of Germany.  The coaster is located in the Baja Ridge area of Six Flags Magic Mountain in Valencia, California.
Many coaster enthusiasts believe that the Revolution is the first roller coaster to include an inversion, but this is not the case; coasters with inversions were created before 1900, and Knott's Berry Farm's Corkscrew (opened in 1975) was the first steel roller coaster to include inversions, featuring two corkscrew inversions.  Revolution is the first steel roller coaster to include a vertical loop inversion.
During the construction of Six Flags Magic Mountain's roller coaster Tatsu in 2005, parts of Revolution had to be dismantled to make way for the new ride; it has since reopened.The Revolution was prominently featured in the climax of the 1977 suspense thriller Rollercoaster.

It later featured in the film National Lampoon's Vacation. Dubbed the  Whipper Snapper,  the Griswold family and kidnapped security guard Russ Lasky (John Candy) rode this coaster in the final scenes of the film.
External links.
Revolution at RCDB;
Revolution at the official Six Flags Magic Mountain website;




 
The time of the Revolution was 2.12
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2062183" title="Burnt Islands" nonfiltered="311" processed="310" dbindex="450313">
There is also a town named Burnt Islands on the southwest coast of Newfoundland, Canada and and a town named Burntisland, on the east coast of Scotland.;
The Burnt Islands is the collective title for three small islands that lie in the Kyles of Bute off the west coast of the Scottish mainland.

The islands are located at .

Individually the Islands are known by their Gaelic names. From the largest to the smallest they are Eilean M\F3r (Large Island), Eilean Fraoich (Heather Island) and Eilean Buidhe (Yellow Island).

Oddly only the smallest of these tiny islets, Eilean Buidhe, shows any sign of ever having been permanently inhabited having the remains of a vitrified fort on it.  Eilean M\F3r, huge in comparison supports only a little stunted woodland at its northern end.

All water going traffic that travels through the kyles has to negotiate the narrow sound that separates Eilean Buidhe from Eilean M\F3r and Eilean Fraoich.  These narrows are marked on either side by several light beacons.

A little to the west Eilean Dubh (Black Island) lies at the entrance to Loch Riddon and to the north Eilean Dearg lies within the loch.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7458857" title="List of fighting styles in Fist of the North Star" nonfiltered="312" processed="311" dbindex="450314">




The following is a list of fictional fighting styles in Fist of the North Star.


Hokuto Shinken (North Star God Fist).

The 1800-year-old Chinese martial arts style used by Kenshiro and his brothers, Hokuto Shinken attacks the human body from within accomplished by striking or grasping various areas and driving one's energy inside. This will usually result in almost instant death, cause the opponent to become crippled, or occasionally rob the victim of their own physical control. The technique also increases the practitioner's strength tremendously, and can allow them to perform miraculous feats of healing. 

Unlike Nanto Seiken, it can only have one successor at a given time. Usually, it is passed down from father to son or some other blood relative; it was passed on to Ramon Kasumi (aka Ryuken) after Kenshiro Kasumi was presumably killed (see Fist of the Blue Sky). Anyone else schooled in Hokuto Shinken not selected as successor must vow to give up the art or be forced to either have their fists destroyed or their memory removed.

Ryuken had a series of students who grew up as if they were brothers. The ones shown in the manga are Kenshiro, Jagi, Toki, Raoh, and Kim. Kim was eliminated from the rite of succession early on and was kicked out of the dojo. Toki was eliminated much later due to his nuclear accident which brought on a terminal illness. Jagi was presumably eliminated due to his underhandedness and clear lack of ability compared to his other brothers. Finally, Raoh and Kenshiro were put to a test where they were both confronted by a wild tiger and had to prove their merit as an assassin. Kenshiro was able to cause the tiger to submit quietly to death whereas Raoh caused the tiger to fear death and attack him. Kenshiro was seen as having a true assassin's style and was therefore chosen as the 64th successor to Hokuto Shinken. Raoh told Ryuken that he was making a mistake. Ryuken told Ken that the tiger submiting quietly to death showed that even if Raoh is the strongest, Ken's style is truly the fearsome/terrible one.

After Ken was chosen Jagi was outraged and tried to rally his brothers to kill Ken so Raoh could be successor, however Toki supported Ken, and Raoh did not care because he refused to give up the Hokuto style anyway. He believed since he was the strongest that he did not need to be named successor to conquer the world. Jagi decided to attack Ken alone but was defeated easily by Ken. When Jagi lunged to attack Ken he "slipped" and Ken took advantage of it to beat Jagi. Jagi made excuses saying that if he had not slipped he could have beat Ken, but it was later revealed that Jagi did not slip, but that Ken was so fast that he struck Jagi's pressure points before Jagi even knew what happened. To stop himself from dying from Ken's attacks, Jagi used his Hokuto skills to hit his own pressure points to stop his head from exploding, but it was not enough to stop permanent damage from occurring. Jagi remained scarred and had to wear braces on his head thereafter.

The four primary contenders for the Hokuto Shinken style all had at least a basic level of mastery of this martial arts form. The anime series states that Hokuto Shinken is an ancient art of 2000 years and cannot be mastered by anyone without the utmost spirit and determination. Even Jagi, the least skilled of all the brothers, has a fighting prowess that can put non-users to shame. Toki (not present in the animated movie) was firmly embedded in the healing aspects of the powerpoints of Hokuto Shinken even before the nuclear war. Kenshiro's kind but strict nature made him the best choice to carry on the Hokuto Shinken style. Raoh's unforgiving, selfish, and brutally violent nature cost him the chance to succeed as the 64th successor. 

After Kenshiro defeats his one time friend, Shin, Kenshiro is made aware that someone has committed horrible atrocities in his name. This person turned out to be Jagi, and starts off the second season of the series with Kenshiro's quest to make contact with all of his brothers. As the story moves along the audience gets a better picture of what Kenshiro went through in his quest to be the heir to the Fist of the North star.

Toki is highly respected by Kenshiro, not only for his martial arts mastery, but for his kind demeanor. Toki is characterized by his long white hair, small headband, and kind face. A liberal interpretation of his appearance and actions can be made to say that he is a Christ like figure. Toki tells a story from before the war when Ken, Shin, Raoh, and even himeslf all had feelings for Yuria. Shin and Raoh both only thought of themselves and viewed Yuria as a trophy to be won. Toki, however, defended Yuria against one of Raoh's unwanted advances on one occasion before the nuclear war. Kenshiro recalls that Toki was once so skilled in Hokuto Shinken that he would have probably become the next successor if it were not for the radiation sickness that he received when he sacrificed himself to save Kenshiro and Yuria.

Toki and Raoh are natural brothers, and are adopted by Ryuken after the death of their parents (later in the manga,
this was retconned into the two coming from Shura Island with Kenshiro). Ryuken was originally unwilling to adopt both children, and cast them from a cliff, telling them that the child who made it back up would be his successor. To his surprise, Raoh scaled the cliff with one arm, carrying Toki with the other. Ryuken then adopted both children and began to instruct Raoh in Hokuto Shinken. Years later, after watching Toki beat up a bully many times his size, Ryuken realized that a martial arts genius was hiding in the younger brother as well and allowed Toki to come into the dojo with Raoh. This was the beginning of their tragedy, because they both knew that they would be fated to battle for the succession. Toki had once promised Raoh that if Raoh were to turn to evil, Toki would stop him. Although Toki tried to honor this promise, he was devastated by his illness and unable to stop Raoh. Raoh then freed Toki from his obligation and told him to battle his illness instead.

Raoh is a large and massive man that towers even over the large frame of Kenshiro. Raoh has a square expressionless face and almost always wears a large helmet and rides a massive black horse. Raoh's single minded ambition and determination fuel his black heart with a lust for power. Even though Raoh loses the contest for successor, he none-the-less continues to use Hokuto Shinken for his own purposes. While it is obvious in both the series and the movie that other characters (Shin, Rei, Jagi, Toki, etc) all possess enough skill to dominate the violent masses, only Ken and Raoh seem to defeat other notable fighters with relative ease. Raoh is such a powerful fighter that the movie ends anti-climatically when Raoh actually defeats Kenshiro in a one-on-one fight of the film's original theatrical release. The aforementioned scenario did not occur in the manga nor the Japanese home video release. Only after this confrontation does Raoh seem to understand the words that Ryuken mentioned to him so long ago, "Power without perception means nothing."

The second half of the series continues with Kenshiro's quest of defeating Raoh's remaining army and building his strength to defeat and end Raoh's terror. During this part we learn more about Raoh's past and story as a sympathetic character.  At volume 13, it turns out that Yuria never died from her suicide attempt and she is also a Nanto Seiken successor as the "Motherly Star" (hence Ryuken once foretold that the world will be in peace when Hokuto and Nanto join forces). When Raoh knew Yuria was alive he took her as a hostage and forced Kenshiro into life-and-death combat once and for all.

Nanto Seiken (South Star Holy Fist).
Nanto Rokusei Ken (South Star Six Holy Fists).
The Nanto Seiken style sets generally tend to consist of styles that focus on dazzling maneuvers and using energy to pierce, cut, and dice enemies and objects. Often, they focus on speed, to slice the opponent, and let them fall apart afterwards. Sometimes this will happen so fast, the opponent will not even realize they're dead. It can be debated that, in the manga, air pressure may be used to slice the opponent instead of energy.
 Nanto Kosh  Ken.
Nanto Kosh  Ken (South Star Lone Eagle fist) is a very direct style of Nanto Seiken. It focuses on stabbing and thrusting attacks, seemingly being most useful at a close range. Often, the slicing will be simulated via tearing, where the user will put his hand into an opponent's body, usually torso, and pull it to either side.

It is important to note than in the original manga and anime, this style was simply referred as "Nanto Seiken" when it was used, as Shin was the first Nanto fighter (as well as the first major antagonist) introduced in the series.

 Nanto Suich  Ken.
Nanto Suich  Ken (South Star Waterfowl fist) is the most graceful of the Nanto Seiken styles. With a focus on grace and aerial attacks, its primary usage is for medium-range attacks.

 Nanto K kaku Ken.
Nanto K kaku Ken (South Star Crimson Crane fist) is a style based on long-range, vertical attacks. It can attack a wide vertical range, and seems to cause more damage when used for vertical slices.

 Nanto Hakur  Ken.
Nanto Hakur  Ken (South Star White Heron fist) is a kick-based style, somewhat rare in Hokuto no Ken. Whereas most Nanto Seiken styles primarily use the hands, Nanto Hakur  Ken primarily uses the feet (though it still uses the hands). The user can attack a wide range around them, even a spinning kick that decimates those around them.

 Nanto H -  Ken.
Nanto H -  Ken (South Star Phoenix Fist) is the most powerful form of Nanto Seiken. It is a free-form style, without stances or forced routine. The user has the ability to glide forward, leading into a powerful scissor attack. There can absolutely be only one successor to this style; the successor must kill his teacher. The ultimate technique of this style is Tensh  J ji H , the Heaven-soaring cross phoenix, which takes a stance with the user's arms held out evenly, like a cross. As the name suggests, it's launched into a powerful aerial attack. This is the only stance taken in Nanto H -  Ken, and is only taken when a worthy opponent appears.

Nanto Goshasei (South Star Five Chariots).
The Nanto Goshasei styles revolve around the use of elements, but still share much in common with the normal Nanto Seiken. Read: Its ability to slice the opponents. However, all forms of this use different techniques and attack styles to do so.

 Wind.
The Gosha Wind style is a style based on swift maneuvers, aerial attacks, and apparently long-range attacks, though it has been seen used as a "Shield" of sorts. This style uses air pressure and cutting winds to slice the opponent to pieces. Due to this usage of wind, it can be used as a long or short range style.

 Fire.
The Gosha Fire style seems to use linear lines of heat to cut through the opponents (basically burning through them). If the opponent has been damaged, due to the large amount of heat, he will burst into flames. The user, if willing to sacrifice himself, can well up the heat in his own body, causing spontaneous combustion.

 Mountain.
The Gosha Mountain style seems to be based on crushing force, pressure tearing the opponent down the middle. Unlike most other Nanto styles, it is not graceful in the least. It is blunt and powerful. As opposed to the fine, linear slices of the other Nanto styles, the attack size of this style is rather large. To further clarify, if an opponent is sliced down the middle of his body, the pressure will crush through the opponent, effectively removing the middle third of the body.

 Cloud.
The Cloud style is a free-form style, apparently without set stances. As opposed to cutting, the cloud style seems to be based on defeating the opponent in a series of long, quick, smooth motions. 

 Ocean .
The Ocean style doesn't see much use in the anime series. Noticeably, the user seems to be able to increase his body size, curl into a ball, and send himself flying through the air, destroying whatever is in his path.

Minor Nanto styles.
Most of these are barely even worth mentioning. Most of them were seen only in the anime series, as well. Filler was needed in the anime, to lengthen the story, especially during the first chapter. According to the anime, Shin taught his generals some Nanto powers, who used their limited Nanto Knowledge to make their own styles.
Nanto Muon Ken (Silent Fist);
Seems to be mainly for use with claws, needles, and stabbing weapons. Apparently just improves the speed and cutting quality of attacks.
Nanto S zan Ken (Paired Kill Fist);
A strange knife-throwing style, that requires two users, facing each other, with the opponent in the middle. They throw the knives between each other, around the opponent. One user throws underhand and catches overhand, the other used throws overhand and catches underhand. They slowly move in, barely noticeable, until they are close enough to attack with the knives.
Nanto S y  Ken (Paired Hawk Fist);
Mentioned, but not used. All that's known is that it requires two users.
Nanto Sh ten Ken (Ascension Fist);
A style based on speed, agility, and height. The user can jump extraordinarily high, throw objects with stunning accuracy and speed, and produce two mirage duplicates around him, with which he can rotate for an illusion.
Nanto K mori Ken (Bat Fist);
Involves the usage of gliders and claws. Mainly involves diving down onto the opponent.
Nanto Bakusatsu Ken (Explosive Kill Fist);
Creative, rough fist to fist art that uses explosives and jumping techniques.
Nanto Ansh  Ken (Dark Bell Fist);
A style based on use of sound waves and hypnosis. The style's sound waves tend to come from bells.
Nanto Ry jin Ken (Dragon King Fist);
A set of styles. The first one is fire boxing, in which the user can safely engulf his skin in flames to destroy his opponent. Also in this style, the user can breathe fire. However, if the user is incapable of breathing, the fire can not escape, and the fire will destroy them from the inside out.
The second part of this style is an illusion-based style, which also uses knife-throwing. The user apparently could use small crystal orbs to give the illusion of a dragon, which would be hiding knives or flames.
Nanto Ningen H dan (Human Cannonball);
Closer to a move than a style. It involves the user being equipped with a sword (apparently katana) and fired into the air via cannon. The user, upon getting above his target, can hold their sword outwards and drop down suddenly and with great, violent force. This is more of a siege style than a fight style.

Taizan-ji Kenp  (Mount Tai Temple Martial Arts).
An ancient fighting style developed at the Taishan Temple in Shanxi, China. The Taizan fighters grew corrupt and eventually carried much influence over the Japanese government in the 1980s before the nuclear war (This may not be in continuity; it directly refers to the two Hokuto no Ken tryouts, in which the Taizan fighters were the main enemies. When the series proper began, most of the backstory was drastically retooled). In the 1990s, many of the Taizan fighters became part of Raoh's army.
Taizan Tenr  Ken (Taishan Sirius Fist) - A freezing, flesh-scooping style.
Taizan Ry  S j  Ben (Taishan Style Twin Streak Whip) - A whip-wielding style.
Taizan Y  Ken (Taishan Bewitch Fist) - Uses ribbons and spikes;

Kazan Saigoku Ken (Mount Hua Western Peak Fist).
A few characters used martial arts related to Mount Hua, most notably the entire Kiba clan. Bask also used this style, as did a spearman on the Land of Asura. There is no official name given for the main branch of this martial art.
Kazan Kakuteigi (Huashan Horn Resisting Sport) - An old sumo skin-hardening technique;
Daraidai (Thunder Strike Pedestal);
Kazan K gai Koh  (Huashan Steel Armor Technique);
Kazan Kakutei Harite (Huashan Horn Resisting Slap);
Kazan Gunr  Ken (Huashan Wolf-Pack Fist);
Sh kei Ken (Hieroglyph Fist);
Y metsu no Kata (Ominous Destructive Form);
Kazan Bunretsu Ken (Huashan Split Fist);
Kazan Gokuaku S  (Huashan Hell Grasp Claw);
Saigoku-Ha Gins  (Western Peak Sect Silver Spear);

Gento K  Ken (Original Dipper Imperial Fist).
The Gento K  Ken style was created to protect the "Tentei" (Heaven Empress). Their symbol is the Tentei star, also known as the Taikyoku-sei (Polaris). The Gento K  Ken style focuses on use of ki energy, usually projected outwards as a blast, or sometimes a shield. It uses ki like a blade, to destroy the opponent's body on a cellular level. This style gets surprisingly little use in the series, save for Falco of the golden style. This style is based on and ranked by colors. It is unclear what, if any, constellation that "Gento" refers to.  Many fans speculate it is the Little Dipper because it's a dipper-shaped constellation that contains Polaris.

The colors are:
Gold;
The Gold style is the absolute strongest, generally used for varying types of blasts and projectiles. Noticeably, it can also freeze and cut opponents.
Purple;
The Purple style seems to be based around rings of energy, theorizing that they're unavoidable.
Red;
The Red style gets absolutely no use in the series. One attack is seen in the anime, and it seems fairly generic.
Blue;
Anime-only style.  The Blue style seems fairly generic as well. Notably, the sole user of it uses a spear, but it's unknown if this is universal or just a personal preference. (The Blue and Green styles were created for the anime to take the place of Jakou's sons)
Green;
Anime-only style. The Green style never sees any use in the series.

Hokuto Ryuu Ken (North Star Lapis Lazuli Fist).
Derived alongside Hokuto Shinken from the original Hokuto Souke ruling family of Shura Island. Its first practitioner was Ryuoh. Practitioners of Hokuto Shinken regard its existence as heresy. While it shares many of its basic attacks with Hokuto Shinken, its essence is deeply rooted in channeling of essence and magic. The effort required to control these energies drives many of its practitioners mad with hatred. The last master of the art, Juukei murdered his own family and attempted to kill Ryuken, who was able to restore him to sanity. Later, Juukei sent Kenshiro, Raoh, and Toki to Ryuken, believing that Raoh would succeed Ryuuken as the Hokuto Shinken successor and free his motherland of Shura from the evil of Hokuto Ryuu Ken. Later, unable to wait for Raoh, he trained Kaioh (Raoh's older brother), Han, and Hyoh (Kenshiro's natural brother) in Hokuto Ryuuken. To his dismay, rather than fight against the evil of Shura, they joined in it. He later joined a resistance movement against the Shura, reluctantly teaching Shachi Hokuto Ryuu Ken to help him fight against the Shura soldiers.

When Kenshiro followed Lin, Juukei was distraught that it was not Raoh who had succeeded Ryuuken in Hokuto Shin Ken. After Han was killed, Juukei, believing that Kenshiro could not raise his hand against his own brother, sought out Hyoh in combat. He had erased Hyoh's memories of Kenshiro years before so he could focus on the fight. Attempting to undo this erasure, he discovered that Kaioh had modified his memories and was slain by Hyoh. Although Hyoh was eventually able to regain his memory, he was defeated by Kaioh, unable to stop Kaioh's fall to evil. Kaioh later became himself again and destroyed himself with molten lava after being defeated by Kenshiro, bringing Hokuto Ryuu Ken to its end.

Towards the end of the manga, the true relationship between Hokuto Shinken and Hokuto Ryuuken is brought to light. The Hokuto Souke, practitioners of Hokuto Ryuuken, ruled Shura Island during the time of the Gento Empire's fall several thousand years ago. To ensure that they could bring peace in the violent times, the rulers of the family decided that next son of the line would be their successor and invent the world's deadliest fist. The two princesses of the Hokuto line gave birth on the same day to two sons, Shuken and Ryuuoh. To prevent division among the family, it was decided that one of the infants would die. Ohka, the eldest of the sisters, gave her life to protect both children, when she discovered that her sister Shume was ill and would not survive to see her son grow up. Shume's son Shuken never forgot the love his mothers showed him. Becoming the successor, he developed Hokuto Shinken. Ryuuoh threw away love, and mastered the family art of Hokuto Ryuuken.  Kenshiro and Hyoh are descended from Shuken; Kaio, Raoh, Toki, and Sayaka are descended from Ryuuoh. 

Due to his lineage, Hyoh had knowledge of the 'original' Hokuto (the precursor to Ryuuoh's refined Hokuto Ryuuken). He refused to use this style, believing that it was for Kenshiro only. He is later able to pass on this knowledge to Ken, and Kenshiro discovers the truth behind the two styles: Hokuto Ryuuken is ultimately a passive style based on distorting the enemy with 'evil' ki, and it cannot stand against Hokuto Shinken, which was designed to be used in an active role. Ultimately, however, the deciding factor between Kenshiro and Kaio is Kenshiro's compassion. Kaio, thinking only of himself, does not understand death and cannot carry the spirits of others on inside him the way Kenshiro can. driving him to fight. Thus, the differences between the two reflect the differences between their ancestors.

Hokumon no Ken (Fist of the North Gate).
An inferior offshoot of Hokuto Shin Ken started by a former Hokuto Shin Ken student that failed to be successor. Seiji from Shin Hokuto No Ken (New Fist of the North Star) used this style. Unlike its origin art, Hokumon no Ken is designed for healing, not for the purpose of assassination. This became even more apparent when Seiji's techniques failed to have any effect on Kenshiro. However, it is still very effective in killing those who are not trained in Hokuto no Ken or other arts.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8163082" title="The Siege of Jerusalem" nonfiltered="313" processed="312" dbindex="450315">
The Siege of Jerusalem (1769) is a poetical drama, full of high drama and unrequited love, written by Mary Bowes, Countess of Strathmore and Kinghorne, an  ancestor of Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom. 

Mary Eleanor Bowes, the daughter of George Bowes of Streatlam and Gibside, married John Bowes, 9th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne. The Earl, who suffered from tuberculosis, often was away from home seeking a cure. The bored Countess began writing The Siege of Jerusalem "to amuse herself", in the words of one of her biographers. After its publication in 1769, the Countess turned to extramarital affairs for amusement. 

On March 7, 1776, Lord Strathmore died of tuberculosis. The Countess subsequently married the Irish rakehell and fortunehunter Andrew Robinson Stoney, and their tempestuous liaison and divorce became a major scandal in Georgian Britain. The story of Stoney Bowes and the Countess of Strathmore was fictionalized by William Makepeace Thackeray in The Luck of Barry Lyndon.

Influences.
There is another poem entitled The Siege of Jersualem in the English language, an anonymous Middle English work. This earlier Siege of Jersualem is an epic poem written in the second half of the 14th century (possibly ca. 1370-1380). It is uncertain whether this piece influenced Bowes' own work, though its gore and extreme anti-semitism differeniate it from her more romantic work.

References.
University of Durham Biography of Mary Eleanor Bowes




Links.
Siege of Jerusalem (Middle English poem)
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1638712" title="Ukrainian stone stela" nonfiltered="314" processed="313" dbindex="450316">

The anthropomorphic stone stelae found in the Ukrainian steppe, with some finds extending the area to Moldavia, the northern Caucasus (Southern Federal District) and the area north of the Caspian Sea (western Kazakhstan), date from the Copper Age (ca. 4000 BC 2000 BC), through the Cimmerian period and   Scythian and Sarmatian times to the early Slavs of the 1st millennium CE. They were first described by Erik Lasote, ambassador to emperor Rudolf, in 1594, who recorded
"seven beacons, images cut from stone, and they numbered more than twenty and were standing atop the kurgans or barrows".

Copper Age and Bronze Age.

The earliest of these stelae date to the 4th millennium BC, and are associated with the early Bronze Age Yamna and Kemi-Oba cultures (see Kurgan). They number in the hundreds, most of them very crude stone slabs with a simple schematic protruding head and a few features such as eyes or breasts carved into the stone. Some twenty specimens are more complex, featuring ornaments, weapons, human or animal figures etc.

Cimmerians.
The Cimmerians of the early 1st millennium BC left a small number (about ten are known) of distinctive stone stelae. Another four or five "deer stelae" dating to the same time are known from the northern Caucasus.

Scythians and Sarmatians.
From the 7th century BC, Scythian tribes began to dominate the Pontic steppe. They were in turn displaced by the Sarmatians from the 2nd century BC, except for in the Crimea, where they persisted for a few centuries longer. These peoples left carefully crafted stone stelae, with all features cut in deep relief.

Early Slavs.
Stelae of early Slavic deities are again more primitive. There are some thirty sites of the middle Dniestr region where such anthropomorphic idols were found. The most famous of these is the "Zbruch idol"  (ca. 10th century), a post measuring about 3 meters, with four faces under a single pointed hat (c.f. Svetovid). Boris Rybakov argued for identification of the faces with the gods Perun, Makosh, Lado and Veles.

References.
D. Ya Telegin, The Anthropomorphic Stelae of the Ukraine (1994).








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="121849" title="St. Martin, Minnesota" nonfiltered="315" processed="314" dbindex="450317">
St. Martin is a city in Stearns County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 278 at the 2000 census.

Geography.

According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 2.5 km\B2 (0.9 mi\B2), all land.

Demographics.
As of the census2 of 2000, there were 278 people, 95 households, and 74 families residing in the city.  The population density was 113.0/km\B2 (292.8/mi\B2).  There were 98 housing units at an average density of 39.8/km\B2 (103.2/mi\B2).  The racial makeup of the city was 99.28% White, 0.72% from other races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.72% of the population.

There were 95 households out of which 46.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 69.5% were married couples living together, 6.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 21.1% were non-families. 17.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 12.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.93 and the average family size was 3.32.

In the city the population was spread out with 32.7% under the age of 18, 11.9% from 18 to 24, 22.7% from 25 to 44, 14.4% from 45 to 64, and 18.3% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 32 years. For every 100 females there were 93.1 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 101.1 males.

The median income for a household in the city was $36,786, and the median income for a family was $41,667. Males had a median income of $26,705 versus $21,750 for females. The per capita income for the city was $12,497.  About 4.8% of families and 8.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including none of those under the age of eighteen and 41.7% of those sixty five or over.

References.










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6028626" title="Zwettl (district)" nonfiltered="316" processed="315" dbindex="450318">




Bezirk Zwettl is a district of the state of Lower Austria in Austria.

 Municipalities .
Suburbs, hamlets and other subdivisions of a municipality are indicated in small characters.
Allentsteig;
Allentsteig, Bernschlag, Reinsbach, Thaua, Zwinzen;
Altmelon;
Altmelon, Dietrichsbach, D\FCrnberg, Fichtenbach, Gro\DFpertenschlag, Kleinpertenschlag, Kronberg, Kronegg, Marchstein, Perwolfs, Schwarzau;
Arbesbach;
Arbesbach, Brunn, Etlas, Haselbach, Kamp, Neumelon, Pretrobruck, Purrath, Rammelhof, Sch\F6nfeld, Schwarzau, Wiesensfeld;
B\E4rnkopf;
Echsenbach;
Echsenbach, Gerweis, Gro\DFkainraths, Haimschlag, Kleinpoppen, Rieweis, Wolfenstein;
G\F6pfritz an der Wild;
Almosen, Breitenfeld, Georgenberg, G\F6pfritz an der Wild, Kirchberg an der Wild, Merkenbrechts, Scheideldorf, Sch\F6nfeld an der Wild, Weinpolz;
Grafenschlag;
Bromberg, Grafenschlag, Kaltenbrunn, Kleing\F6ttfritz, Kleinnondorf, Langschlag, Schafberg, Wielands;
Gro\DF Gerungs;
Aigen, Albern, Antenfeinh\F6fe, Blumau, B\F6hmsdorf, Dietmanns, Egres, Etlas, Etzen, Frauendorf, Freitzenschlag, Griesbach, Gro\DF Gerungs, Gro\DF Meinharts, Haid, Harruck, H\E4uslern, Heinreichs, Hypolz, Josefsdorf, Kinzenschlag, Klein Gundholz, Klein Reinprechts, Klein Wetzles, Kotting Nondorf, Marharts, M\FChlbach, Nonndorf, Ober Neustift, Ober Rosenauerwald, Oberkirchen, Preinreichs, Reitern, Schall, Sch\F6nbichl, Siebenberg, Sitzmanns, Thail, Wendelgraben, Wurmbrand;
Gro\DFg\F6ttfritz;
Engelbrechts, Frankenreith, Gro\DFg\F6ttfritz, Gro\DFwei\DFenbach, Kleinwei\DFenbach, Reichers, Rohrenreith, Spr\F6gnitz;
Gutenbrunn;
Gutenbrunn, Ulrichschlag;
Kirchschlag;
Bernhardshof, Eck, Ga\DFles, Kienings, Kirchschlag, Merkengerst, Ple\DFberg, Roggenreith, Scheib, Schneeberg;
Kottes-Purk;
Bernhards, Dankholz, Doppl, Elsenreith, Ensberg, Ernst, Felles, Fohra, Gotthardschlag, Gschwendt, G\FCnsles, Heitzles, H\F6rans, Kalkgrub, Koppenhof, Kottes, Leopolds, M\FCnichreith, Pfaffenschlag, P\F6tzles, Purk, Reichpolds, Richterhof, Runds, Schoberhof, Singenreith, Teichmanns, Trittings, Voirans, Voitsau, Weikartschlag, Wernhies;
Langschlag;
Bruderndorf, Bruderndorferwald, Fraberg, Kainrathschlag, Kasbach, Kehrbach, Kleinpertholz, Kogschlag, Langschlag, Langschl\E4gerwald, Mittelberg, Mitterschlag, M\FCnzbach, Reichenauerwald, Schmerbach, Siebenh\F6f, Stierberg, Streith;
Martinsberg;
Edlesberg, Kleingerungs, Kleinpertholz, Loitzenreith, Martinsberg, Mitterndorf, Oed, Pitzeichen, Poggschlag, Reitzendorf, Thumling, Walpersdorf, Weixelberg, Wiehalm;
Ottenschlag;
Bernreith, Endlas, Jungschlag, Neuhof, Oedwinkel, Ottenschlag, Reith;
P\F6lla;
Altp\F6lla, D\F6llersheim, Franzen, Kienberg, Kleinenzersdorf, Kleinraabs, Krug, Neup\F6lla, Nondorf, Ramsau, Reichhalms, Schmerbach am Kamp, Waldreichs, Wegscheid am Kamp, Wetzlas;
Rappottenstein;
Aggsbach, Arnreith, Dietharts, Grossgundholz, Gr\F6tschen, Gr\FCnbach, Hausbach, H\F6hendorf, Kirchbach, Kleinnondorf, Lembach, Neustift, Oberrabenthan, Pehendorf, Pfaffendorf, Pirkenreith, Rappottenstein, Reichenbach, Riebeis, Ritterkamp, Roiten, Selbitz;
Sallingberg;
Armschlag, Grainbrunn, Gro\DFnondorf, Heubach, Kamles, Kleinhaslau, Lugendorf, Moniholz, Rabenhof, Sallingberg, Spielleithen, Spielleithen, Voitschlag;
Sch\F6nbach;
Aschen, Dorfstadt, Fichtenh\F6fen, Grub im Thale, Klein-Siegharts, Lengau, Lichtenau, Lohn, Pernthon, Sch\F6nbach;
Schwarzenau;
Ganz, Gro\DFhaselbach, Hausbach, Limpfings, Modlisch, Schlag, Schwarzenau, St\F6gersbach;
Schweiggers;
Gro\DFreichenbach, Kleinwolfgers, Limbach, Mannshalm, Meinhartschlag, Perndorf, Reinbolden, Sallingstadt, Schwarzenbach, Schweiggers, Siebenlinden, Streitbach, Unterwindhag, Vierlings, Walterschlag, Windhof;
Traunstein;
Biberschlag, Dietmanns, G\FCrtelberg, Haselberg, Hummelberg, Kaltenbach, Pfaffings, Prettles, Sch\F6nau, Spielberg, Stein, Traunstein, Walterschlag, Weidenegg;
Waldhausen;
Brand, Gutenbrunn, Hirschenschlag, K\F6nigsbach, Loschberg, Niedernondorf, Niederwaltenreith, Obernondorf, Rappoltschlag, Waldhausen, Werschenschlag, Wiesenreith;
Zwettl;
Annatsberg, Bernhards, B\F6hmh\F6f, B\F6senneunzen, Edelhof, Eschabruck, Friedersbach, Gerlas, Germanns, Gerotten, Gradnitz, Gro\DFglobnitz, Gro\DFhaslau, Gschwendt, Guttenbrunn, H\F6rmanns, H\F6rweix, Jagenbach, Jahrings, Kleehof, Kleinmeinharts, Kleinotten, Kleinsch\F6nau, Koblhof, Marbach am Walde, Mayerh\F6fen, Merzenstein, Mitterreith, Moidrams, Negers, Neusiedl, Niederglobnitz, Niederneustift, Niederneustift, Niederstrahlbach, Oberstrahlbach, Oberwaltenreith, Ottenschlag, Purken, Ratschenhof, Rieggers, Ritzmannshof, Rosenau Dorf, Rosenau Schloss, Rottenbach, Rudmanns, Schickenhof, Syrafeld, Unterrabenthan, Unterrosenauerwald, Uttissenbach, Waldhams, Wolfsberg, Zwettl Stift, Zwettl;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6702914" title="New Hampshire's 2nd congressional district" nonfiltered="317" processed="316" dbindex="450319">

New Hampshire's second congressional district covers the north-western part of New Hampshire.  It is currently represented in the United States House of Representatives by Democrat Paul Hodes. Previous Congressman Charlie Bass (R) was defeated by Hodes in the 2006 midterm elections. 

Cities and towns currently in the district.

The district includes:
  
 the communities of Sanbornton, and Tilton in Belknap County;

 all of Cheshire County;

 all of Coos County;

 all of Grafton County;

 all of Hillsborough County except the communities of Bedford, Goffstown, Manchester, and Merrimack;

 all of Merrimack County except the community of Hooksett;

 the communities of Atkinson, Salem,  and Windham in Rockingham County ;

all of Sullivan County;















ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7431818" title="Electrical, Electronic, Telecommunications and Plumbing Union" nonfiltered="318" processed="317" dbindex="450320">


The Electrical, Electronic, Telecommunications and Plumbing Union, known as the EEPTU was a British trade union formed in 1968. It was a union for electricians. It often found itself in unpopular positions with the trade union movement as it chose to work harmoniously with employers rather than in defiance.

History.
The union started as the Electrical Trades Union (ETU) which was formed in 1889 and what became the Plumbing Trades Union which was formed in 1865. The ETU came from the merger of the Union of Electrical Operatives, formed 1868, and the Amalgamated Society of Telegraph and Telephone Construction Men. The PTU started out as the United Operative Plumbers' Association of Great Britain and Ireland, which became the United Operative Plumbers' and Domestic Engineers' Association of Great Britain and Ireland in 1911, then the Plumbers, Glaziers and Domestic Engineers' Union in 1931, before becoming the PTU in 1946. In June 1961, the ETU was taken to court for conspiracy to defraud by the undemocratic union leadership. Jock Byrne took over leadership which is when the right-wing ideology of the union gained ground.

Jock Byrne suffered a stroke, which led in 1966, Frank Chapple (August 8th 1921 - October 19th 2004) to become the leader. He espoused free-market thinking, which was unusual for a union leader, and aimed to rid his union of communists; his former union - the ETU had been run by communists. In some ways, he was a man ahead of his time: the era of New Labour. He was a reluctant loyalist to the Labour Party. This was just the beginning. The union went on to advocate nuclear power, privatisation of state-owned industries and membership of the European Union. It also co-operated in single union deals with companies - to the smooth the path of employers, and as a result benefitting their union, possibly (or deliberately) at the expense of other unions.

In July 1968, the ETU merged with the PTU to form the Electrical, Electronic & Telecommunications Union & Plumbing Trades Union, which became the Electrical, Electronic, Telecommunications & Plumbing Union in 1973. In the early 1970s, electricity was in steep demand, as there were many national power cuts caused by coal miners going on strike.

In September 1982, Frank Chapple became leader of the TUC. Eric Hammond became leader when Frank left in 1984. Frank Chapple became Lord Chapple of Hoxton in 1985. Eric Hammond was not liked by many unions as he tried to modernise working practices.

Wapping dispute.
The history of the EEPTU would not be complete without this notorious chapter. In this dispute in January 1986, Rupert Murdoch and the editor of the Sunday Times, Andrew Neil, had to find a strategy to implement new computer technology and printing equipment without the whole scheme being blocked by the trades unions of the printers - the National Graphical Association, led by Tony Dubbins, and SOGAT, led by Brenda Dean. Workers often had to belong to a closed shop to work in printing works, and there were many strikes. Working practices would have to be changed and huge redundancies would be unavoidable, as all the labourious printing and typeface setting found in Fleet Street could be simplified using more reliable and less-troublesome computers. This barely involved printers, certainly no-one was needed to produce the typefaces.

So an alternative to asking the NGA and SOGAT politely if they wanted to change on their terms was the only way to get the whole changeover completed. The unions were given no hint or consultation of how the whole long-winded process of printing was going to be unceremoniously ditched and effectively started from scratch. They were relying on stopping the National Union of Journalists members from using the computers. They were entirely duped.

It was a brave new world and not one that was lightly undertaken. An option could be to use printers who did not belong to a union, but the outcome chosen was to use workers who belonged to the EETPU - they were being classed as electricians. This was a loophole to avoid confrontation with the NGA and SOGAT, who were not the greatest advocates of change. It was known as a sweetheart deal. In November 1986, the TUC decided not to punish the EEPTU for this deal.

Expulsion from the TUC.
The union wrote its own rule book when it came to making deals with companies, and often stuck two fingers up at the TUC. It was expelled from the TUC for violating the Bridlington Agreement which stops unions from poaching members from other TUC unions.  The EETPU had developed a policy of signing single union agreements in companies where it had few members.  In 1987, the TUC asked the EETPU to retract from these agreements at Yuasa (a Japanese battery company), Thorn-EMI and Orion (a Japanese electronics company). The EETPU refused and its 225,000 workers were expelled, which was a relief and revenge for some more left-wing unions.

Once separate from the TUC, communist sections of the union re-emerged in an effort to change the policies of the union.

Mergers.
The union merged with the AEU to become the Amalgamated Engineering and Electrical Union (AEEU) in May 1992, so the electricians were now part of the TUC. The AEEU was led by Ken Jackson, who belonged to the EETPU, and was knighted in 1999. The AEEU then merged with the Manufacturing, Science and Finance (MSF) to become Amicus in 2001. Amicus, the largest private sector union with 1.2m workers, has been led by Derek Simpson, a left-winger, since June 2002. Tony Dubbins, of the NGA in the Wapping dispute, became Joint Deputy General Secretary in 2004.

See also.
Light & Liberty: A history of the EEPTU by John Lloyd. ISBN 0-297-79662-3

External links.
 Lord Chapple dies in 2004;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4230200" title="Animal Liberation Orchestra" nonfiltered="319" processed="318" dbindex="450321">
Animal Liberation Orchestra (ALO) is a musical group, currently signed on Jack Johnson's Brushfire Records label. They have released one full length album, Fly Between Falls, which is being re-released by Brushfire Records. They have also released several EPs and independent albums, including Time Expander.

 Biography .


Born from a friendship nurtured during their days at Saratoga High School, the band calling themselves Django consisted of Zach Gill (Keyboards/Vocals), Steve Adams (Bass Guitar/Vocals), Dan Lebowitz (Guitars/Percussion/Vocals) and Matt West (Drums/Vocals). 

Originally a nine-piece ensemble featuring a brass section, ALO began drawing enormous attention in the Santa Barbara area with their rousing stage shows. When Zach, Dan and Steve returned to their hometown Saratoga, they stripped back down to a quartet, playing with a wide variety of different drummers. Finally, in 2002, the trio reunited with drummer David Brogan (with whom they had previously played in college) and the current version of Animal Liberation Orchestra was solidified.

Zach Gill, the keyboard player, went to college with the popular singer-songwriter, Jack Johnson, and they had good connections with one another. Zach Gill has recently provided piano in Jack Johnson's band, adding a new flavor to the live performances.

Animal Liberation Orchestra have already released several independent albums, including Fly Between Falls, which was recently re-released on Brushfire Records. This album includes the re-release of the track, "Girl, I Wanna Lay You Down", which features Jack Johnson providing guitar and vocals. New to the re-release is the song "Walls of Jericho", a tour staple and crowd favorite noted by its festival imagery, wailing guitar solo, and euphoric crescendo. This track gained popularity after its live performance was featured in the Jack Johnson and Friends Live at the Greek DVD. The studio version's debut on myspace.com received mixed review.

Recently, ALO finished a tour supporting Jack Johnson, along with Matt Costa, all across Europe, including United Kingdom, France and Spain, with two dates in mid-April supporting Jack Johnson in Brazil.  In June, they opened for Dave Matthews Band at stops in upstate New York and North Carolina. On October 14th, they sold out their first headlining concert at the venerated Fillmore Auditorium in San Francisco. Dubbed "The Abnormal Formal," this show included supporting acts Mojow and the Vibration Army, Honeycut and Blue Turtle Seduction, and featured ALO playing with special guests including Brett Dennen and Jack Johnson. ALO performed on New Year's Eve at the Sea of Dreams event in San Francisco, then boarded a cruise ship to participate in the soldout Jam Cruise 5 from January 2-7, 2007. The band will also support Michael Franti & Spearhead at the Solutions for Dreamers benefit in Santa Barbara on February 24, and have booked a slot at the East Coast Blues & Roots Music Fest in Australia in April.

 Discography .
Albums

 Animal Liberation Orchestra & The Free Range Horns Vs. L.A.G. (1998);
 One Size Fits All (1999);
 Time Expander (2002);
 Fly Between Falls (2004 - Original Release);
 Fly Between Falls (2006 - Brushfire Records);

EPs

 Live Mix (2000);

 See also .
List of jam bands;
Saratoga High School;

 External links .
Animal Liberation Orchestra's official website;
ALO on archive.org's Live Music Archive;
ALO at Myspace;
Brushfire Records;
ALO at Yahoogroups - discussion email list;
ALO at Tribe - discussion;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1202130" title="The Guns of the South" nonfiltered="320" processed="319" dbindex="450322">


The Guns of the South (1992, ISBN 0-345-37675-7) is a novel by writer Harry Turtledove.  

 Plot summary .

An alternate history story set during the American Civil War, the story deals with a group of time-travelling Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging (who conceal their true identities while restating their acronym as "America Will Break") members from 2014 who wish to alter the outcome of the Civil War and, as a result, insure the success of their own cause in the future. In order to do this, they provide the South with a large number of AK-47s.  To all but a few Confederate leaders, who are told the truth, they are known as "Rivington men" after the (fictional) North Carolina town where they set up their base.

The Confederacy, starting to reel towards defeat in the late winter of 1863-64, welcomes the guns and other supplies.  The armies of the Confederacy are trained in their use, and when the opposed armies break camp to fight the Battle of the Wilderness, there is an overwhelming Confederate victory rather than the inconclusive result in our timeline.  Lee's army defeats the Union again near Bealeton, Virginia, crosses the Potomac, and in a daring night battle, captures Washington, DC.  With parallel successes by Confederate troops on other fronts, U.S. President Lincoln has little choice but to sign an armistice, agreeing to the withdrawal of Union troops, and negotiations to determine a final border.

During those negotiations, the Confederacy abandons claims to West Virginia and Maryland, while the United States cedes the Indian Territory, with Kentucky and Missouri to hold state-wide referendum votes to determine which nation they will join.  After the completion of the negotiations, voting, and political conversation during which a minor incident occurs where two members of the AWB are caught by Union pickets attempting to smuggle AK-47s into the disputed states referenda are held where Kentucky chooses to join the Confederacy while Missouri chooses to remain with the Union. General Lee returns to his duties in Virginia with the hope of finally settling down with his family, including his ailing wife, at their home, Arlington House, for the remainder of their days.

Such is not to be.  Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederacy, makes clear his wish that Lee be the next man to hold the position.  The AWB, whose goal from the beginning had been to maintain the Confederacy as a bastion of Black oppression, feel that Lee is too soft on the question of slavery and rally behind General Nathan Bedford Forrest, a member of the Confederate cavalry, in the hopes of electing him to office.  A slave trader himself, Forrest is believed to be the perfect man for the job of maintaining the standard of white supremacy.  

The election is hotly contested, both men heroes of the recent War and filled with charisma, but Lee emerges the victor despite the introduction of 20th and 21st century campaigning techniques by the AWB to bolster Forrest's one-note campaign to preserve slavery in the South.  Several of the states which voted for Forrest begin to call for secession from the Confederacy and the creation of their own nation, echoing the original Southern secession after the election of Lincoln to the Union's presidency.  However, Forrest feels that such an action would be nothing short of petulance and concedes defeat, offering his personal service in the Confederate Army if any states do attempt to secede.

Lee is presented with a stolen book from the future, proving that the Rivington men lied about the catastrophes which they claimed lay in wait for the South if it lost the war.  He confronts Rhoodie.  The AWB has no chance of influence over Lee, and, at the presidential inauguration, several of its members attempt to assassinate Lee.  They attack now-President Lee armed with UZIs and shielded with kevlar (or a similar material) vests (both still a mystery to the Confederacy) and manage to kill a number of prominent Confederates, including Lee's newly-inaugurated Vice President Albert Gallatin Brown and General Jubal Early. Lee survives the attempt on his life by nothing more than pure luck, though his wife is killed.  The AWB forces in Richmond are attacked, and, after a fierce battle, are finally defeated.  Their offices contain many items from the 21st century that are a mystery to the soldiers who discover them  gas-powered electrical generators, fluorescent lighting, and a Macintosh computer (which Lee calls a "QWERTY" for the keys)   but most importantly contains dozens of historical texts that reveal not only the AWB's true intentions, but that they had twisted the historical facts so as to present the South's defeat as far worse than it actually was. All of these are contained in a secure area at the AWB headquarters in Richmond, behind a safe-like door which the Confederates lack the technology to defeat, but eventually "outflank" (Instead of breaking down the door, they break through an outer wall of the building).

After the capture of the AWB's Richmond offices, Lee presents before the Confederate leadership all the historical documents that the men from the future used to inform themselves of the events of the present time.  With the view of hindsight, which is always 20/20, they see how the issue of slavery is almost universally reviled in the future and that, where they had hoped to be vindicated for their actions by their descendants, practically the entirety of the world viewed the Civil War and Southern Secession to be little more than a crime against humanity itself.  With this new information, Congress is more inclined to agree to Lee's plan to pass a bill for gradual emancipation of its entire slave population.  The bill itself was modelled after a proposed act of legislation in slave-holding Brazil, though the real bill was not proposed until years after the setting of the novel, and Turtledove notes in an afterword that it is anachronistic.

Lee orders the Confederate army against the AWB.  However, the AWB have managed to secure control over an area around Rivington, due largely to elements of their advanced technology which they have not shared with Lee's men (including mines, mortars, walkie-talkies, flak jackets, and so-called "endless repeaters", in reality belt-fed machine guns that prevented any form of massed advance on the AWB lines), and they manage to successfully repel all Confederate attempts to retake their territory.  With the AWB resupplied from the future, the conflict appears to be a stalemate.  With a newly reinstated Forrest in command, it is a brilliant strategy by Lt. Colonel Henry Pleasants, a former Union officer who remained in the South after he had been captured during the War, that finally allows the Confederates to breach the AWB perimeter.  The Confederate forces manage to overcome the AWB's superior technology through sheer numbers and determination. The AWB combatants are eventually defeated, and those who are unable to escape in their time machine are captured.  Rhoodie surrenders, but is killed by one of his slaves in retaliation for severe mistreatment.  Most of the Rivington men kept their slaves under deplorable conditions and, despite years of tradition which demand the slave be put to death, even the Confederate soldiers believe Rhoodie deserved what he got, quickly ordering the slave to flee the area.

The surviving AWB members are held in a Confederate prison under constant guard. While all face a sentence of death, proceedings are on indefinite stay so long as those willing to cooperate assist in bridging the gaps in the information presented in the historical texts and technological items recovered following the AWB's defeat.  Although some gaps would prove almost impossible to fill due to numerous generations of technological advancements 1870s technology would be far too immature to attempt to repair a 21st century computer at the component level, for example most of the AWB survivors agree to cooperate much in the same way captured German scientists cooperated with their Soviet captors they can cooperate or die.

Analysis.

The story is told alternately from the third-person perspectives of General Lee himself and of First Sergeant Nate Caudell, an actual historical figure who served in the 47th North Carolina. This enables the reader to witness events from both "the top" and "the bottom", on the battlefield in the early part of the book and later in the civilian life of the post-war Confederacy. The realities of the situation gradually reveal themselves as Lee learns more about his dubious allies, while Caudell also hears increasingly disturbing rumors about the situation at Rivington - with the concluding explosive confrontation with the AWB again seen alternately from the two distinct viewpoints.  

Turtledove used historical records of an actual Confederate Army unit, the 47th North Carolina, to flesh out his list of characters.  All the characters in the book are mentioned with the actual ranks they held in the 47th - including Mollie Bean, who as a woman masqueraded as a male Confederate soldier for most of the War before being wounded and captured by Union forces - as well as their civilian employment if it is known.

Awards.
The book won the John Esten Cooke Award for Southern Fiction in 1993.

Trivia.
 Dr. Turtledove has an entire (unrelated) book series, known among fans as Timeline-191, on an alternate history in which the Confederacy won the Civil War.  Though this time, not through deus ex machina intervention by time travel.  Instead the famous 'lost orders' are found by other Confederates, the Union does not learn of Lee's plans and a battle equivalent to the Battle of Antietam results in decisive Confederate victory.

 The idea of a time traveller bringing advanced weapons to Confederates is also the theme of Harry Harrison's book A Rebel In Time.  The two treatments are, however, very different.

 Several of the characters, or at least South African people with the same name, appeared in S. M. Stirling's book Conquistador. They weren't very succesful there, either.

External links.

 Americanisms in Harry Turtledove s The Guns of the South, Tatu Ahponen, 2003 (including detailed summary) ;

review by Mark Taha;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6993463" title="Eri Sawachika" nonfiltered="321" processed="320" dbindex="450323">

 is a character from the manga/anime series School Rumble.

One of Tenma Tsukamoto's close friends, Eri's father is a wealthy European and her mother is half-Japanese. She has great difficulty with Kanji. Eri is extremely wealthy and somewhat spoiled (Western Europeans in Japan are stereotyped to be billionaires and extremely snobby). Eri is devoted to her father, but cannot spend as much time with him as she wants because of his work commitments.

Several events (such as being comforted by Kenji Harima when her father goes overseas, being confessed to by mistake, seeing his naked body twice, his victory at the school sports day on her behalf, etc.) cause Eri to develop an attraction to Harima that she refuses to admit to herself and her friends. She tries hard to hate him (especially when Harima acts like a jerk whenever she tries to be nice to him) but somehow her feelings for him kept getting stronger. She becomes very jealous and angry towards anyone rumoured to date Harima, which causes a strain in her relations with Mikoto Su  and Yakumo Tsukamoto. 

Eri was mistakenly thinking that Harima was liking her for some time (most memorable moment was when Eri was asking Harima what kind of girl he likes on behalf of Tenma, who in turn is asking on behalf of Yakumo), until she realized his true feelings are for Tenma, and now she has a hard time trying to attract his attention.

Note: Harima usually calls Sawachika with an alternative nickname: "Oj  (  )" (literally "young lady" or "miss", but used only to address someone of high social status)



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="158050" title="Wrawby Postmill" nonfiltered="322" processed="321" dbindex="450324">
Wrawby Postmill is a windmill in the unitary authority of North Lincolnshire, England,  at Wrawby near Brigg. It was built in 1760 and had common sails. It was working until the 1940s when it became derelict, but it was restored in 1965. It is the last post mill in the north of England, and is open to the public on most Bank Holidays. Flour ground at the mill is for sale, and there is a small museum of milling tools.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7212842" title="Brett Josef Grubisic" nonfiltered="323" processed="322" dbindex="450325">
Brett Josef Grubisic is a Canadian novelist and editor, and professor of English at the University of British Columbia. 

He has edited two anthologies of gay male fiction. His debut novel, The Age of Cities, was published in 2006.

Bibliography.

Novel.
 The Age of Cities Vancouver: Arsenal Pulp, 2006.

Anthologies.
 Contra/Diction: New Gay Male Fiction. Vancouver: Arsenal Pulp, 1998.
 Carnal Nation: Brave New Sex Fictions Vancouver: Arsenal Pulp, 2000. (edited with Carellin Brooks);










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1713252" title="Polish Lowland Sheepdog" nonfiltered="324" processed="323" dbindex="450326">





The Polish Lowland Sheepdog (Polish also know as a Polski Owczarek Nizinny), also just PON, is a medium sized, shaggy-coated, sheep dog breed native to Poland. 

The Appearance
The PON is a muscular, thick-coated dog.  The double coat can be of any color or pattern, of white, gray, and brown are most common, with black, gray, or brown markings. It is common for colors to fade as the dogs reach adulthood.  The undercoat is soft and dense, while the topcoat is rough and either straight or wavy, but not curly.  The hair around the head makes the head appear to be larger than it actually is, and typically covers the eyes.  

Males are 45   50 cm (18   20 inches) in height at the withers, while females are 42   47 cm (17   19 inches). The body is not square, but rectangular; the ratio of the height to the body length should be 9:10 (a 45 cm tall dog should have a body 50 cm long).  The tail is either very short or docked. Some undocked dogs have tails that curl over the back.

 Temperament .
Polish lowland sheepdog's are stable and self-confident, but are wary of strangers.  They have an excellent memory and can be well trained, but may dominate a weak-willed owner. PONs adapt well to various conditions, and are  popular as companion dogs for apartment dwellers in their native Poland. PONs require a moderate amount of exercise daily. PONs also possess a very unique personality.

History.
Known in its present form in Poland from at least the thirteenth century, the PON is most likely descended from the Puli and the herding dogs of the Huns. 

Kazimierz Grabski, a Polish merchant, traded a shipment of grain for sheep in Scotland in 1514, and brought six PONs to move the sheep.  A Scottish shepherd was so impressed with the herding ability of the dogs that he traded a ram and two ewes for a dog and two bitches.  These dogs were bred with the local Scottish dogs to produce the Scottish herding dogs, most obviously the Bearded Collie.

Almost driven to extinction in World War II, the PON was restored mainly through the work of Dr. Danuta Hryeniewicz and her dog, Smok (en:Dragon), the ancestor of all PONs in the world today, who sired the first ten litters of PONs in the 1950s.  The breed standard was written with Smok as the model, and accepted by the F\E9d\E9ration Cynologique Internationale in 1959.

In the American television program Gilmore Girls, Lorelai Gilmore's dog Paul Anka is a Polish Lowland Sheepdog.

 Health .
In general, PONs are a very,very,very healthy breed. Animals should be checked for hip dysplasia and progressive retinal atrophy before being used for breeding. PONs require a low protein diet.  The life expectancy of a PON is 12 to 15 years.

 References .
FCI standard from PON Klub;
AKC standard from APONC;
Polish Lowland Sheepdog Info from Dog-Breeds.net;
Polish Owczarek Nizinny Sheepdog Breed-FAQ;

External links.
 Klub Polskiego Owczarka Nizinnego (Poland, in English);
 American Polish Lowland Sheepdog Club;
 Canadian Polish Lowland Sheepdog Club;
 The Polish Lowland Sheepdog Club (UK);











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3047404" title="King Fear" nonfiltered="325" processed="324" dbindex="450327">


King Fear is the Babylon Whores' second full-length album. It was released on CD in 1999 by Spinefarm Records in Finland and internationally by Necropolis Records.

Track listing.
"Errata Stigmata" (Antti Litmanen, Ike Vil)   3:35;
Don Rosicross   additional bass guitar;
"Radio Werewolf" (Litmanen, Ewo Meichem, Vil)   3:55;
Tommi K\E4rkk\E4inen   keyboards & radio werewolf;
Ewo Meichem   additional rhythm guitar;
"Hand of Glory" (Litmanen, Vil)   3:24;
"Veritas" (Jouni M\F6mm\F6)   5:00;
Jallu Junnilainen   percussion;
Otra Romppanen   lead and slide guitars;
"Skeleton Farm" (Jake Babylon, Litmanen, Vil)   3:45;
"To Behold the Suns Below" (Babylon, Litmanen, Vil)   5:33;
Jasse Hybrid   backing vocals;
Nik Turner   flute;
"Exit Eden" (Litmanen, Vil)   4:33;
"Sol Niger" (Litmanen, Vil)   3:58;
"Fey" (Vil)   4:36;
Antti Lindell   keyboards;
"King Fear: Song For the Damned" (Vil)   5:22;
Mikko Kuokkanen   keyboards;
Dominique Poulain;
Nik Turner   flute;

Personnel.
Jake Babylon   bass guitar;
Pete Liha   drums, percussion;
Antti Litmanen   guitars;
Ike Vil   vocals;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3523057" title="Z\E1lu\B8\ED (Beroun District)" nonfiltered="326" processed="325" dbindex="450328">
See other places named Z\E1lu\B8\ED.;



Z\E1lu\B8\ED is a village in Central Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has around 480 inhabitants.

External links.
 Village website (cz);








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4572536" title="Toad blood corpuscles" nonfiltered="327" processed="326" dbindex="450329">
 


This is a toads blood corpuscle. It has a highly complex cell structure in comparison to the infamous frogs blood corpuscle. This is because of its size and abnormal absorption properties. Note that these are not to be confused with western Cirinian Box Toad's structure. This is a common mistake. The Cirinian Box Toad has a complex cell density due to the properties of its immune system.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2667464" title="Hit rate" nonfiltered="328" processed="327" dbindex="450330">
 
Hit rate is a metric or measure of business performance traditionally associated with sales.  Defined as:

;

Sales can be measured either as the sum of dollars pursued or the number of deals pursued.  Accurate calculation requires clear definition of when a sales opportunity is firm enough to be included in the metric, as well as firm disposition of the opportunity (i.e. the deal has reached a point where it is considered won, lost or abandoned).
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="124152" title="Humboldt, Nebraska" nonfiltered="329" processed="328" dbindex="450331">
Humboldt is a city in Richardson County, Nebraska, United States. The population was 941 at the 2000 census.

Geography.
Humboldt is located at  (40.165022, -95.945899).

According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 3.5 km\B2 (1.3 mi\B2), all land.

Demographics.
As of the census of 2000, there were 941 people, 427 households, and 239 families residing in the city. The population density was 271.1/km\B2 (703.5/mi\B2). There were 508 housing units at an average density of 146.4/km\B2 (379.8/mi\B2). The racial makeup of the city was 96.17% White, 0.64% African American, 2.02% Native American, 0.11% Asian, 0.21% from other races, and 0.85% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.81% of the population.

There were 427 households out of which 23.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 44.7% were married couples living together, 7.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 44.0% were non-families. 40.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 25.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.10 and the average family size was 2.79.

In the city the population was spread out with 21.1% under the age of 18, 4.8% from 18 to 24, 20.2% from 25 to 44, 21.6% from 45 to 64, and 32.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 48 years. For every 100 females there were 86.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 83.7 males.

The median income for a household in the city was $27,672, and the median income for a family was $37,692. Males had a median income of $25,650 versus $20,909 for females. The per capita income for the city was $16,968. About 8.7% of families and 13.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 23.1% of those under age 18 and 9.0% of those age 65 or over.

Education.
Humboldt is served by Humboldt Table Rock Steinauer High School, which is operated by Humboldt Table Rock Steinauer School District #70.

External links.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5404101" title="Steel production by country" nonfiltered="330" processed="329" dbindex="450332">
This article summarizes the world steel production by country. For the company-oriented account, see List of steel producers. 

Overview.

In 2005, total world crude steel production was 1131.8 million metric tons (mmt).  The following list of steel-producing countries as of 2005 is compiled from the International Iron  and Steel Institute's 2006 publication.



 China  349.4 Mton        ;
 Japan  112.5 Mton          ;
 United States  94.9 Mton   ;
 Russia  66.1 Mton          ;
 South Korea  47.8 Mton     ;
 Germany  44.5 Mton         ;
 Ukraine  38.6 Mton         ;
 India  38.1 Mton ;
 Brazil  31.6 Mton          ;
 Italy  29.3 Mton;
 Turkey 21.0 Mton          ;
 France 19.5 Mton ;
 Taiwan (ROC) 18.6 Mton   ;
 Spain 17.8 Mton           ;
 Mexico 16.2 Mton          ;
 Canada 15.3 Mton          ;
 United Kingdom 13.2 Mton  ;
 Belgium 10.4 Mton         ;
 South Africa 9.5 Mton;
 Iran 9.4 Mton;
 Poland 8.4 Mton;

Total:
 World - 1131.8 Mton;
 European Union (25 countries) - 186.8 Mton;

See also.
 Steel industry;
 List of steel producers;
 World economy;

 References .


  
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2459516" title="William T. Armstrong" nonfiltered="331" processed="330" dbindex="450333">
William T. (Bill) Armstrong (1929 - March 25, 2005) was a Canadian Broadcasting Corporation executive, and briefly served as president from August to October 1989 following the retirement of Pierre Juneau.

Armstrong was with the CBC for 33 years and retired in 1992. His role at the CBC was diverse, having been:

 Supervisor of Information 1958-1959;
 Director of Information Services 1959-1966;
 Director of Corporate Relations 1967-1969;
 Director, Ottawa Area 1969 to 1973;
 Vice-President, Public Relations at Head Office 1973 to 1975;
 Managing Director of Radio 1975-1979;
 Assistant General Manager, CBC English Services 1979-1981;
 General Manager of Roy Thomson Hall 1981-1982;
 Executive Vice-President of CBC/Radio-Canada 1982 to 1989;
 Regional Director for CBC Ontario 1989-1992;

Reference.
 WT Armstrong;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="496074" title="\A6ubi?" nonfiltered="332" processed="331" dbindex="450334">

The \A6ubi  were one of the twelve tribes which constituted Croatian statehood in the Middle Ages; they held the county of Bribir (Varvaria) in inland Dalmatia.

Today Bribir is an archaeological site in inland Dalmatia. It is located on a flat hill about fifteen kilometres northwest of Skradin, nearby the old Zadar road which goes through Benkovac to \A6ibenik. Under the steep rocks of its western side there is the source of the Bribir ica stream and from here the rich and fertile Bribir-Ostrovica field spreads out. The hill of Bribir, an ideal place to control the surrounding territory, was perfect for human habitation during all ages. The one who held it had control over all roads and approaches from the sea to the hinterland and so man has dwelled here since the Old Stone Age. There was a settlement as early as the beginning of the older Iron Age, expanding and developing during the Liburnian period, continuing during the Roman domination, and lasting to the end of the Middle Ages. During the Roman period Bribir, known as Varvaria, had the status of municipium and was the centre of one of the fourteen Liburnian counties. 

The Byzantine emperor Constantine Porphyrogenitus writing in the X century about the Croats settling in Dalmatia in the VII century describes how this people had organised their country into eleven counties (zupanias) one of which was Breberi, centred on site of the old Varvaria. The county stretched between the Zrmanja river to the W and Petrovo polje to the E, straddling the Krka and  ikola rivers. A line of hills separated it from the territory of Knin to the N and to the S it bordered on Skradin. It was held by a clan that in coeval documents is referred to as nobiles, comites or principes Breberienses. These Breberienses belonged to the \A6ubi  tribe, one of the twelve which composed Croatian statehood in the Middle Ages and one of the six from which the Ban, or viceroy, was chosen. The original arms of this clan of nobles is a wing argent on a shield gules. Argent and gules are the colours of the papal party (guelfs) and of Croatia. The coat of arms could be derived from the winged shield standard of the royal chamberlain, a post held by Budez postelnic berberensis jupanus (1069). 

In recent history books whenever members of this clan are mentioned in relation to their prominent role in the XIII and XIV centuries the surname of \A6ubi  is conferred upon them by the historian. This was not the way, however, that the members called themselves at the time. During the Middle Ages every man in Croatia bore four names: the name given at baptism, the patronym, the name of the clan which was also the name of the settlement in which it lived, and the tribal affiliation. In the period between 1069 to the destruction of the county by the Turks in 1520, the many personages of the clan that emerge from the original Latin documents qualify themselves as de Breberio preceded by their Christian name and patronym; only rarely do they add their tribal affiliation. The seal of Paul (Pavao) (+1312), the greatest figure of the clan, has the following lettering on it: + S(igillum). PAULI BREBERIENSIS BANI TOCIUS SCLAVONIE. Thus, in the vulgar the surname would be Breber or some variant (Brebir, Bribirski, Breberi , Brebri ). The XIX century erudite Croatian historians who wrote the first history books for the public opted for \A6ubi  which, in the ardent nationalistic spirit of the time, sounded reassuringly Slavic as compared to Breber. 

During the reign of Dmitar Zvonimir (1075-1089), the mythical golden age of the kingdom of Croatia, the highest court offices of postelnik (comes camerarius) and tepizo (comes palatinus) are held by Budez and Dominicus, both of the lineage. During the XIII and XIV centuries Brebers are many times called to cover the post of count in the townships of Split, Trogir, Skradin and Omi\A8. In the documents which have come down to us it is possible to identify six different branches of the Breber clan. The most illustrious of which is the one descended from iupanus Miroslaus Brebriensis, filius Bogdanizi (1184). His great-grandson Paul, mentioned above, reaches the peak of power towards the end of the XIII century. He is Ban of Croatia and Dalmatia, his rule extends to Bosnia, and with his brothers he controls the maritime cities of Dalmatia. In these regions he is the champion of the Pope and is instrumental in placing Charles, the firstborn of the King of Naples, on the throne of Hungary and Croatia. He is related to the King of Naples, the King of Serbia, the Da Camino lords of Treviso, and the Tiepolo and Dandolo patricians of Venice. When he dies (1312) his eldest son Mladen tries to keep the hold over the other Croatian clans but is unsuccessful and bit by bit loses lands, castles and towns.

In 1347 King Louis I of Hungary confers on this branch of the Brebers, in the persons of Count Gregory and Count George, respectively son and nephew of Ban Paul, the castle of Zrin in exchange of the strategically important castle of Ostrovica, their last holding outside of ancestral Breber. This branch will be thenceforth known with the surname of Zrin (a Zrinio, Zrinsky, Zrinyi, Zrini, de Serin) and will again rise to heights of fame and glory with Count Nicholas IV, the hero of Szigetvar (1566), and with Count Nicholas VII (1616-1664), the Scourge of the Ottomans.

Marcus Forstall, the secretary of the latter, compiled a history of the Zrins, tracing it back to the Brebers, to the tribe of \A6ubi , and from here to the Roman gens Sulpicia who, according to Suetonius, sprang from the love of Zeus for Pasiphae. A feeling for classical antiquity was a cultural feature of the Renaissance and the wish to establish a link with the great tradition of Rome was a common vanity of those times. The claim of the Zrins, however, is not totally groundless. During the times of the Roman Empire, Dalmatia was a senatorial province and would have affiliations with the patrician families of the capital. Varvaria was, in fact, a Roman municipium under Italic law. Other clans in Dalmatia like the Karin, the Gusi  and some of the patrician families from the maritime cities also claimed the same origins.

The greatness of the house of Zrin ended with the famous trial of Vienna (1671) regarding the Zrinski-Frankopan plot. Of the last counts, Adam fell in the cavalry charge against the Turks at Salankemen in 1671 and Antun, after having brilliantly fought against the French, fell in disgrace and died in prison in 1703.

Another branch of the clan, descended from a Petrus living at the beginning of the XIV century, owes its rise to having remained unshakeably loyal to Sigismund of Luxemburg, the future Holy Roman Emperor (1411), in his struggle for the crown of Hungary-Croatia against Ladislas of Durazzo. Nicholas, James and John, nobiles de Breberio, are confirmed in their possessions, James is nominated Viceban, and they receive the castle of Perna with all the appurtenances. This family from now on known as Perenyi (Peransky, de Per\E9n, a Pernya) will be numbered amongst the magnates of Hungary up to the XX century. Gabriel Per\E9nyi and bishop Francis Per\E9nyi fell fighting in the fateful Battle of Moh\E1cs (29th August, 1526).

Also destined to wealth and power are the descendants of Ugrinus (died 1335). Known under the nickname of Meli , then Melith, which later became their surname, they obtained vast estates in Transylvania.

Besides these particular offshoots which went their separate ways, a numerous kin continued to abide by the ancient holding of Breber. In 1324 when the citizenship of Zadar was conferred on the "nobiles domini de Briberio", 190 members of the clan presented themselves for the investiture. In 1353 the Ottoman Turks crossed the Dardanelles and began their invasion of Europe. In the XV century Bosnia was already a pashalik from where raids would be carried into Croatia-Dalmatia. The feudal levies and the clan warriors had no hope against the Turkish war machine and met their fate in the battle of Krbavsko Polje (1493). The castle of Breber was caught on the front between the Turkish, Hungarian and Venetian armies and by 1520 had become a desolate waste of rubble. Last news giving the comites Breberienses still in their ancient seat is in the diocesan synod of Skradin held at the time of bishop Archangel (1490-1502). The Turkish terror displaced large portions of the population of Dalmatia-Croatia. Some sought refuge in the cities of the coast, some crossed the sea to Italy, others, especially those belonging to the nobility, resettled to the north in that part of Slavonia still under the crown of Hungary-Croatia. Their clan organisation definitely disrupted, the single Breber families settled in various places in the county of Zagreb (Turopolje, Beryzlawcz, Draganoscz, Chernkowcz, Threm, Jezenowcz, Koruscy, Zthobycza). Many Breber families are still living there to this day.

 Famous members of Zrinski family .

Count Martino Zrinski or Sdrigna, was born on 1462 and was the son of Count Pietro II and brother of Nikola III, father of Nikola IV, the one who is referred to in history as Nikola the Great Zrinski of Sighed. Martino Zrinski was the first of the Zrinski family who lived since then in Cefalonia Greece, by the name of Sdrin, Sdrinia. 

Count Nikola Zrinski, (born 1508) the ban of Dalmatia, Slavonia and Croatia, the commander of Szeged (since 1561) and the Habsburg commander in western Hungary (since 1563); the most courageous and prominent member of the Zrinski family, which together with the Frankopans was the most distinguished and famous noble family in the Croatian history. He established his reputation as a fearless warrior in the defense of Vienna in 1529, and in the victory over the Turks at Budapest 1529. As Croatian Ban, he persistently advocated Croatian interests. He acquired immortal fame for himself and Croatia in the Battle of Szigetv\E1r in 1566.  More than 100.000 well-armed Turks, headed by the famed Suleiman the Magnificent and Grand Vezier Mehmed-Pasha Sokolovi , besieged the fortress of Szeged from August 7th to September 7th, 1566. Zrinski, with "two thousand three hundred and a few more" warriors defended it, until the charge from the fortress, in which he was killed. The Sultan offered Nikola Zrinski the crown of Croatia in vain. The destiny of Europe was at stake then, and Zrinski and his company of Croatian knights chose to defend the interests of the Christian West. Sultan Suleiman died during the battle, so the Grand Vezier abandoned that military expedition and returned to Constantinople. 

The Zrinski era lasted for whole 145 years The Zrinskis were not only distinguished warlords famous after their heroism in fighting the Turks, but also poets and book-lovers. The Zrinski family is considered to have played the most important role in the cultural history of Me imurje (northern part of Croatia, near the border of Slovenia and Hungary). In order to understand the Zrinski epoch better, it is necessary to get to know the Zrinski family better. 

Nikola's IV son, Giorgio V (Juraj) inherited his father's property, but he more interested in books than in chivalry. He became enthusiastic about Lutheranism which he did not accept, but forced the people to turn Protestant as well. He persecuted Catholic priests and devastated a number of the churches, especially the famous Paulist monastery at Sveta Helena, which did him no credit, of course. But, on the other hand, he founded the first printing office at Nedeli\A8 e (near  akovec) in 1574, when there was no other printing office in Croatia. 

His son, Giorgio VI (Juraj Jr.) turned back to Catholicism and "purified" Me imurje from Lutheranism. He was in complete succession to the famous warlord Nikola Sdrin - he was a brave and fearless warrior famous for fighting the Turks at Palanka. Unfortunately his chivalry and rapier-tonguedness were a thorn in his superior's, general Albrecht von Wallenstein's side and von Wallenstein had Giorgio poisoned after a verbal duel in 1626.

 List .
 Bribir .
 Zrin .

See also.
 List of rulers of Bosnia;
 List of rulers of Croatia;

External link.
 http://genealogy.euweb.cz/balkan/subich1.html;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2234690" title="Manuel Enrique Araujo" nonfiltered="333" processed="332" dbindex="450335">
Manuel Enrique Araujo Rodriguez (1865-1913) was President of El Salvador 1 March 1911 - 8 February 1913. According to the New York Times of December 28, 1913, he was assassinated.













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7427016" title="Jerzy Janiszewski" nonfiltered="334" processed="333" dbindex="450336">

Jerzy Janiszewski (born 1953 in Gda sk) is a Polish artist, best known for designing the Solidarity logo in 1980. 

He received a diploma of Gdansk Academy of Fine Arts in 1976. His creations include logotypes, posters, scenogaphies and open-air installations.
Now  he is working in Paris, Barcelona and London.


 External links .
Homepage;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2683891" title="Bel-Aire Elementary School" nonfiltered="335" processed="334" dbindex="450337">
Bel-Aire Elementary School is a primary school located at 10205 S.W. 194 Street  in Miami, Florida. Its principal is Dr. Columbus Williams Jr and it is part of the Miami-Dade County Public Schools System.  The school's mascot is the Eagle, and its colors are blue and gold.  Its total enrollment for the 2005-2006 school year is 533.

External links.
Bel-Aire Elementary School Homepage;
Miami-Dade County Public Schools;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6053686" title="Israel Securities Authority" nonfiltered="336" processed="335" dbindex="450338">
The Israel Securities Authority (ISA) is Israel's securities regulator.  Its Chairman since 2002 is Moshe Tery.

Establishment.

The ISA was established pursuant to the Securities Law, 5728-1968.

Mandate.

Its mandate is to protect the interests of the public investing in securities, as stipulated in the Law. Pursuant to this mandate, the Authority covers, among others, the following areas:   
 
Granting permits to publish prospectuses, which enable corporations offer securities to the public.  ;

Regulating and supervising the mutual fund industry. ;

Monitoring disclosure through the periodic reports that each company must file after issuing securities to the public through a prospectus, as long as the securities are held by the public.  ;

Monitoring tender offers.

Ensuring fair and orderly trade of securities exchanges operating in Israel.  ;

At this time, Israel's sole exchange is the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.  The Authority reviews proposals to amend the stock exchanges' bylaws and recommends their adoption to the Minister of Finance and to the Knesset Finance Committee.  It also approves the stock exchange s directives and rules, and amendments to them.  In addition, the Authority is engaged in the supervision of trade on the exchange, and in addressing inquiries by the public pertaining to the exchange s operations.

External links.
 ISA website;
 ISA bid for IOSCO Conference, on Youtube;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2522722" title="Dae Hyeonseok" nonfiltered="337" processed="336" dbindex="450339">
Dae Hyeonseok (Hangul:   , Hanja:   ), otherwise known as King Gyeong (Hangul:  , Hanja:  ) or Da Xuanxi, was the king of Balhae kingdom from 871 to 895. 








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2695016" title="Nepal Time" nonfiltered="338" processed="337" dbindex="450340">
Nepal Time (NPT) is the time zone for the Kingdom of Nepal. It is UTC+5:45, and is one of the few time zones without an hour or half-hour offset from UTC (another is used in the Chatham Islands). Before being changed in 1986, the time zone was UTC+5:40.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7944654" title="Elephant beetle" nonfiltered="339" processed="338" dbindex="450341">


Elephant Beetles, Megasoma elephas, are part of the Scarabaeidae family and the subfamily Dynastinae.  They are classified with the Neotropical rhinoceros beetles. 

Appearance.  
Elephant beetles are black in color and their body is covered with a coat of small fine microscopic hairs, which is particularly thick on the beetle's elytra.  The males have two horns protruding from their head and another from their prothorax.  The females have no horns.  The males' horns purpose is a defense mechanism in competition against other males for food and mates. 

Size.
In size, elephant Beetles range between 70-120 mm and the males have even extended over 120 mm.  Males are around 2 to 3 sizes bigger than the females.
The elephant beetle is often known the be purple with stripes down its back. It also has a gaping mouth and a big hole in the middle of it

Location.
Elephant Beetles are located in Central America, southern part of Mexico, and South American rainforests.

Breeding.
Elephant Beetle's larvae develop in large decaying logs and take up to four years to develop into an adult beetle.  The female Elephant Beetle lays her eggs into the decaying log.  the egg stage takes around 3 weeks.  The next stage, the larvae stage takes around 29 weeks with the C-shape larvae (also called white grubs) have brown heads and six legs and consume organic matter.  The third and last stage, the pupal stage lasts around 5 weeks at a temperature of 26 degrees Celsius.  The life span of an adult Elephant Beetle is around four months. 

Food.
For their diet, Elephant Beetles eat the sap of particular trees and ripened fallen fruits such as pineapples.  They also eat longan, lychee fruit, and bark from certain trees like the poinciana.

Other Facts.
Elephant Beetles are mainly active during the night.
Elephant Beetles are also able to maintain high body temperatures with temperature decrease.
Their population has been depleted by the slash and burning of the rainforests, which has reduced their grounds for mating.

References.


External links.
Megasoma elephas elephas pics;
Megasoma elephas occidentalis pics;
Elephants at the Insectarium?;
Family Scarabaeidae - Megasoma elephas;
God of Insects;
History of Insects;
Viva Natura TV;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4115468" title="Ahmad Shabery Cheek" nonfiltered="340" processed="339" dbindex="450342">
Ahmad Shabery Cheek is a Malaysian politician and the Member of Parliament for the constituency of Kemaman in Terengganu. He is a member of United Malays National Organization, the main component party of Barisan Nasional or National Front in English, which is the ruling party of the federal government of Malaysia. He is also the Parliamentary Secretary for the Foreign Ministry.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3756163" title="SpywareStrike" nonfiltered="342" processed="340" dbindex="450344">

SpywareStrike is a rogue anti-spyware program. This means that it pretends to be an anti-spyware program, but it is a security risk since it gives exaggerated information about the computers security status so that the user would buy the full commercial version. 

Like SpyAxe, this program will invade your computer through the zlob trojan (and possibly others), popping up frequent alerts to "upgrade". If you click on the alert, you'll pay  for a program that does nothing to protect you against spyware, and even opens up additional security holes on your PC.

SpywareStrike is located at the URL of the same name. The website was created on December 20th, 2005 and the marketing is identical to that of SpyAxe, down to the logo. SpywareStrike can be installed via trojan horse, direct download from the site, or is left behind after manually disabling SpyAxe. It has a different signature than SpyAxe, so SpyAxe removal tools are ineffective against it.

SpywareStrike hijacks the home page and redirects the web browser to SpywareStrike.com. SpywareStrike automatically runs on every Windows startup. It affects only the Windows operating system.

Unlike other family members (SpyFalcon, AntiVirus Gold), SpywareStrike is an exact clone of SpyAxe.

 See also .
 Rogue software;

External links.
 Symantec information sheet;
 Spywarewarrior;
 Manual Removal & Detection Instructions for SpywareStrike;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1364938" title="Silver Nemesis" nonfiltered="343" processed="341" dbindex="450345">

Silver Nemesis is a serial in the British science fiction television series Doctor Who, which was first broadcast in the UK in three weekly parts from November 23 (the series 25th anniversary) to December 7, 1988.  Featuring Sylvester McCoy as the Doctor, Silver Nemesis reflected a darker turn in Doctor Who storylines, with the intention being to reveal the secrets of the Doctor.

Synopsis.
Stuart period time-traveller Lady Peinforte, Neo-Nazis, Cybermen and the Seventh Doctor converge in the grounds of an English stately home seeking to control a powerful Time Lord weapon, known as the Nemesis.

Plot.

This is based on the Extended Version presented on the VHS release rather than that originally broadcast.

South America, 22 November 1988. In an office full of Nazi regalia and a portrait of Adolf Hitler on the wall,  a man looks at a computer screen displaying details on which he sees "Landing Location, Windsor, Grid Ref: 74W 32N, November 23 1988". He rushes out to his superior, De Flores, who is about to shoot a noisy parrot out of a tree with a crossbow and tells him that he has wonderful news. The two enter the mansion.

Windsor, England, 1638. A finely dressed woman is shooting pigeons with a bow and arrow whilst her servant looks on. In her house, an elderly mathematician is performing complex calculations. The woman enters and demands to know how long his work will take, but he is too engrossed in his work to answer her. She goes to the fireplace, and picking up a poisoned arrow, hands it to her servant and tells him to put it with the others. He enquires after a silver arrow, and she replies that she will deal with that arrow personally. 

Back in the Nazi office, De Flores addresses a group of followers, telling them they are at the turning point of history. He proposes a toast to the fourth Reich, before taking a silver bow from a display case, preparing to board an aircraft.

In space, a comet is seen from which a glowing energy emanates  Back in Windsor, the mathematician finally reveals the result of his calculations to the woman, telling her that the Nemesis comet circles the earth every 25 years, and its decaying trajectory means that it will eventually fall to Earth from the point where it originally departed   the meadow outside. This will occur on 23 November 1988.

At a jazz performance by Courtney Pine, the Seventh Doctor and Ace relax and enjoy the music. Ace's newspaper has a story about a comet heading to Earth, but she is more interested in the football results. The Doctor hears a bleeping from his pocket watch, and wonders of what it is trying to remind him. Pine's performance ends to applause and Ace asks him to sign a tape for her. As they head back to the TARDIS, a concealed marksman raises a gun towards them. At the sound of gunfire, Ace and the Doctor duck down and retreat quickly towards the TARDIS, but have to jump in the river to escape their pursuers. Two men arrive wielding guns and wearing headsets, but assuming they must have got their targets leave again. The Doctor and Ace then struggle back on to the river bank, safe now.

In 1638, the mathematician dreams of great inventions that he could discover. The lady tells her servant to bring forth the potion, and he replies that they only require the final ingredient, human blood. They look meaningfully towards the mathematician 

The Doctor fetches out a new tape deck that he has built to replace the one of Ace's that had been destroyed by the Daleks. This one however, can do much more than play tapes. Telling Ace that his reminder had a terminal rating meaning some planet somewhere is facing imminent destruction, an image of the planet Earth appears on the tape deck 

In 1638, the woman and her servant drink their magic potion and begin and are surrounded by a glowing miasma, and beginning to travel forwards through time. They appear in present day Windsor in the middle of a cafe, somewhat to the surprise of its customers.

Admitting that he has known about the possible destruction of Earth for 350 years, the Doctor and Ace tack a quick trip in the TARDIS to Windsor Castle. Rummaging around in its basement, the Doctor tells Ace he is looking for a silver bow. 

As the comet finally hits Earth, the Stuart woman's arrow begins to pulsate with light. In the castle, the Doctor and Ace feel the force of the impact. The Doctor tells Ace that it is the return to Earth of a comet called Nemesis, and then reveals that it was he who had launched it into space in the first place. Led by their glowing bow, the group of Nazis head towards the comet in a van. De Flores is in no rush to retrieve the Nemesis yet, as the comet will be too hot due its descent through the atmosphere. He tells his soldiers they will wait in a hotel leaving British police to guard the site, unaware of the true power of the Nemesis. In the castle, Ace finds a card telling the history of the bow, relating how it disappeared in 1788, and that unless a place is kept in the castle for its return, the entire silver statue will return to destroy the world. The Doctor tells her that the statue has indeed returned with that purpose. At this point, the lights dim, and Ace thinks it is a power cut.

Travelling back in time to 1638, the Doctor and Ace go to the time travelling woman's house in Windsor. Seeing the corpse of the mathematician, the Doctor hurriedly covers it with a cloth so that Ace does not see it. The Doctor sees the mathematician's calculations and is impressed that he had been able to work out when the Nemesis comet will return to Earth, only months since the Doctor's previous visit. The Doctor reveals that the woman   Lady Peinforte   made the Nemesis statue depicting herself out of a silver metal that fell to Earth in the meadow outside her house. The Doctor sees a chess board, the game is going rather badly. He tells Ace that Peinforte managed to travel forward in time to 1988 using the arrow and a rudimentary knowledge of time travel, but mostly black magic. He says that she has a nose for secrets. The Doctor tells Ace the statue is made of a living metal   Validium   which is capable of great destruction. 

Peinforte and her servant Richard withdraw from the statue to assess the strength of the police guarding it. The police are having their own problems, their radios are not working, the batteries are dead. Around the comet crash site, vents emerge from the ground spewing gas, causing the policemen to choke and fall unconscious.

The TARDIS materialises outside Windsor Castle in 1988. The Doctor and Ace follow a group of tourists on a guided tour. Seeing a no entry sign, they sneak into the castle. Hearing the bark of dogs, they see a woman coming towards them with several corgis. The Doctor tells Ace to look like they own the place, because that always works. Although the Doctor does not recognise the woman, Ace immediately realises that it is the Queen Elizabeth II and drags him into hiding. However, when she tells him who it was, he races after the Queen, saying they need the armed forces and police on their side, and what better person could they ask? The Doctor and Ace are seized by security guards before they can get anywhere near the Queen. The Doctor informs them that they got into the castle by travelling in time and space, but they are incredulous. The Doctor tells them the fate of every living person is in danger, but the guards do not believe him. The Doctor dons a pair of oversized glasses and glaring at them intones, "you will believe me! you will let us go!" Distracted by this spectacle, the Doctor and Ace flee into the corridors of the castle. As they run, Ace sees a portrait of herself hanging on a stairwell wall. When she says she does not remember this happening, the Doctor tells her that it has not happened yet. 

Richard asks Peinforte what she will do when she gains control of the Nemesis, and she replies that first she will exact revenge on that "predictable little man". She predicts that he will soon arrive, and tells Richard she knows the secret of the "nameless Doctor." 

De Flores and his Nazis make their move for the Nemesis comet and see the unconscious policemen. He takes the bow case and places it on the comet, and within the Nemesis statue begins to glow. The Doctor and Ace arrive, and De Flores demands they hand over the arrow. The Doctor reveals that the bow and arrow give the Validium metal critical mass. The Doctor confronts De Flores and asks if he has observed the advanced technology which has been used to attack the policemen, and the power blackouts that have been occurring over the last few days. De Flores threatens to shoot Ace if they do not tell him where the arrow is, but at this moment a large spacecraft lands near the crash site. The doors open and from within emerge a troop of Cybermen 

----

The Cyberleader recognises the Doctor, even though his appearance has changed, and tells the onlookers that the Cybermen had predicted his presence. The Nazis open fire on the Cybermen but their bullets are ineffective. The Cybermen open fire and drive the Nazis away. The Doctor says that this happened before, but before it was the Roundheads and Lady Peinforte. Peinforte shoots one of the Cybermen with a bow and arrow. De Flores finds one of her arrows and sees that it is gold-tipped. Peinforte and Richard withdraw, allowing the Nazis and the Cybermen to fight it out, hoping to retrieve the Nemesis in the aftermath. In the confusion, the Doctor and Ace manage to seize the silver bow and return to the TARDIS. Peinforte sees this and tries to shoot them, but her arrow thuds into the TARDIS door just as it dematerialises.

While Peinforte and Richard enter the town of Windsor, the Cybermen begins to cut the Nemesis statue free of the comet. The Doctor and Ace go back to Peinforte's house in 1638. The body of the mathematician has gone, and the chess pieces have also been moved. The Doctor tells Ace that although the mathematician was a genius, he had needed a little help to get started. The Doctor picks up a piece of paper from the desk and throws it into the fireplace. Making a further move on the chess board, they leave.

Materialising back in the present day, the Doctor explains that Validium was created on Ancient Gallifrey by Omega and Rassilon as the ultimate defence. Some of it however left Gallifrey, and now they must stop Peinforte or anyone else reuniting the statue, the bow and the arrow. Using the bow to lead them, they proceed in the direction of the statue. 

In Windsor, Peinforte and Richard are confronted by two thugs. Asking if they are social workers, the thugs demand money. Soon after, the pair of skinheads are seen hanging tied up by their ankles in a tree, whilst their cloths burn on a bonfire. The Doctor uses the tape deck to start transmitting a signal, which interferes with the Cybermen's communications. As they proceed, they see the pair of thugs still tied up, and are surprised when they hear that social workers did this to them. 

As Richard is terrified by the sight of a bizarre creature, a llama, Peinforte tells him that if he does not help her retrieve the Nemesis, she will abandon him in this future time. He then sees that they are standing by a memorial statue. She tells him that it is his tomb, placed in the grounds of her own burial place. The arrow starts glowing and they realise that that is where the Cybermen have taken the Nemesis statue. As they scour the tomb for Nemesis, the Cybermen prepare to attack, but realising they are armed with gold arrows retreat. Opening up her grave, they see that it does not contain her bones.

The Doctor asks Ace if she ignored his instructions and prepared any Nitro-9 explosive. When she denies it, he tells her to blow up the Cybermen's spacecraft. He distracts the Cyberman-controlled human guards, and Ace throws her rucksack into the vehicle causing an explosion destroying it completely. When the Cybermen return, they think the human guards have betrayed them and kill them. De Flores approaches the Cybermen and starts to quote Wagner comparing themselves to supermen and the Cybermen to giants. He strikes a deal with the Cyberleader to kill Peinforte and Richard in exchange for a share of control of Earth after its conquest. The Cybermen have no intention of honouring the deal, and plan to kill the Nazis after the death of Peinforte.

The Doctor tells Ace that every time the Nemesis comet approached Earth in its 25 year orbit, it caused destruction: in 1913, the eve of the First World War; 1938, Hitler annexes Austria; 1963 Kennedy assassinated, and now it is 1988. They use the tape deck scanner trying to find the cyber-fleet. 

Opening up the grave fully, Peinforte gazes upon her own image shown on the Nemesis statue. However, De Flores and his man arrives with guns, and Richard has only one arrow left. In fear, he hands over the arrow to De Flores and drags Peinforte away leaving the Nazis in control of Nemesis. De Flores believes he now has all three parts of the Validium. Placing the arrow in the statues hands, it becomes more animated. The Cybermen arrive and ask De Flores where the bow is. When he opens the case he sees that he does not have it at all.

The Doctor sees a chameleon and realises the Cyber-fleet is shrouded, and making the adjustment to the tape deck reveals the entire fleet of Cyber-warships, thousands of them 

----

The Doctor decides to activate the Validium by taking the bow to the crypt. When Ace seems frightened, the Doctor tells her she can wait in the TARDIS, but she refuses and wants to accompany the Doctor. 

Meanwhile, De Flores realises he has overplayed his hand and tries to negotiate with the Cyberleader. The Cyberleader orders his lieutenant to kill De Flores, but he throws gold dust in the leader's face and flees. The other Nazi however turns on De Flores and offers him to the Cybermen, asking to be made into a Cyberman himself. The two Nazis are then taken to be prepared for Cyber-conversion. As the Doctor and Ace arrive at the crypt, the jazz tape finishes playing and the Cybermen's communications begin working. The Doctor enters the crypt holding the bow, and manoeuvring past the Cybermen with Ace places the bow in the Statue's hands but snatches it away again. The statue awakens and begins to follow the bow. 

Going back to 1638, the Doctor continues his chess game against his unknown opponent. Ace asks him who brought the Validium to Earth in the first place, and what is really going on but he remains silent. Taking a bag of gold coins, they leave. 

Peinforte begins to rant about all power being hers and her intent to retrieve the Nemesis. They come to the road, and attempt to hitch a lift in a passing car. Richard stands with his thumb out but no cars stops for them. Seeing this fail, Peinforte steps into the middle of the road. A large car stops, and an American woman offers to take them into Windsor. She tells them that she is in England discovering her roots. Revealing she is descended from the 17th century Remington family, Peinforte calls them thieves and swindlers. Mentioning a Dorothea Remington, the American woman recognises the name, and Peinforte knows that Dorothea died in 1621 from a slow poison. 

With the Cybermen set off after the Nemesis and the Doctor, De Flores is released from his bonds by his man, who had deceived the Cybermen into thinking he had betrayed the Nazi leader. Meanwhile, the Doctor and Ace materialise inside the hangar containing the comet. Soon the Nemesis statue arrives, and the Doctor gives it the bow. The Nemesis speaks to Ace telling her that it was fashioned by Peinforte into its current beautiful form, but that it has also had horrific forms in the past, and will again in the future. The Cybermen arrive and Ace shoots one down using a gold coin and a sling shot. The Cybermen pursue her, but she manages to elude them. The Doctor sets the trajectory of the rocket sled containing the Nemesis, headed for the Cyber-fleet. Ace becomes trapped on a gantry between two Cybermen and the Cyberleader, with only a single remaining gold coin. The Cybermen lift their guns to shoot her, but she fires the gold coin at the Cyberleader and ducks, causing the other two Cybermen to shoot each other instead. The Nemesis asks the Doctor if she must destroy the entire Cyber-fleet, to which he says that she must. She asks the Doctor whether she will be needed again, or whether she will have her freedom, but the Doctor hushes her. 

Ace arrives down from the gantry, but is surrounded by two more Cybermen. They demand that the Doctor hands the bow over to them, but the Doctor threatens to destroy the bow if they harm her. Placing it in front of the rocket sled engines, he grabs Ace. As the two Cybermen advance towards them, the engines fire killing the two Cybermen. However, up on the gantry the Cyberleader plucks the gold coin from its chest unit. De Flores arrives and picks up the bow. He speaks to the Nemesis, but she remains silent. The Cyberleader raises his gun and shoots De Flores dead, and demands that the Doctor hands over the bow. At this point, Peinforte and Richard arrive. Demanding the bow for herself, she asks Ace who the Doctor is, and whether she knows where he came from. Ace says that nobody knows who the Doctor is, but Peinforte says that she does. When Ace asks how, she says the Nemesis told her. The Doctor asks what will happen if he gives her the bow, to which Peinforte replies his power will be hers, but his secrets remain his own. Appearing to concede defeat, the Doctor says he is surrendering, but not to Peinforte, rather to the Cybermen. Peinforte threatens to reveal his secret, but he just tells her to proceed. She says that she will tell them of Gallifrey, of the Old Time, the time of Chaos. However, the Cyberleader says that the secrets of the Time Lords are of no interest of the Cybermen. 

The Cyberleader tells the Doctor to cancel the Nemesis's destructive capabilities. The Doctor asks the statue if she understands the Cyberleader's instructions, and she replies "perfectly". The triumphant Cyberleader tells the Doctor to set that statue's course to rendezvous with the Cyberfleet. He tells them that the Earth will become their new base planet, the new Mondas. Launching the Nemesis, Peinforte screams and throws herself into the rocket sled and merges with the Nemesis. The rocket sled takes off and heads out into space. It arrives in the midst of the Cyber-fleet and there is an enormous explosion, destroying all of the Cyber-warships. The Cyberleader asks how it is possible, and the Doctor replies that he merely asked if Nemesis had understood the instruction, but had not said anything about obeying them. The Cyberleader prepares to kill the Doctor, but Richard grabs the gold-tipped arrow from the TARDIS door, and stabs it into the Cyberleader's chest unit, finally killing it. 

The Doctor and Ace return Richard to 1638. There, Richard and a Stuart woman perform a concert for them. Ace asks the Doctor who he really is, but he just puts his finger to his lips 

Cast.
The Doctor   Sylvester McCoy;
Ace   Sophie Aldred ;
De Flores   Anton Diffring;
Karl   Metin Yenal;
Lady Peinforte   Fiona Walker;
Richard   Gerard Murphy;
Mathematician   Leslie French;
Security Guard   Martyn Read ;
Mrs Remington   Dolores Gray;
Skinheads   Chris Chering, Symond Lawes;
Cyber Leader   David Banks;
Cyber Lieutenant   Mark Hardy;
Cyberman   Brian Orrell ;
Jazz Quartet   Courtney Pine, Adrian Read, Ernest Mothle, Frank Tontoh ;

Cast notes.
The first episode of this serial features a brief guest appearance by the British jazz musician Courtney Pine as himself.

In print.

A novelisation of this serial, written by Kevin Clarke, was published by Target Books in November 1989.

Continuity.
When Ace refers to the Doctor as a Time Lord, Lady Peinforte is shown shaking her head as if to say, "No." The significance of this is never expanded upon in the story nor in any of the remaining televised Seventh Doctor stories, although a deleted scene from Remembrance of the Daleks had the Seventh Doctor claiming that he was "far more than just another Time Lord" and deleted scenes from Survival would have featured the Master challenging the Doctor's claim to be a Time Lord. These are part of what fans have dubbed the Cartmel Masterplan, an attempt by the show's script editor to revise (some say retcon) elements of the Doctor in order to return some mystery to the character. The series was cancelled before this could be followed up on screen, although the spirit of the masterplan was carried out in the subsequent original novels. (see The Other);
While the Cybermen's vulnerability to gold had been known of since Revenge of the Cybermen, the Cybermen are far more vulnerable to it in this story than they were previously. In Earthshock the Doctor had to feed fragments of gold directly into the Cyber-Leader's chest unit, and while the Leader was damaged, the Doctor needed to shoot it several times in order to finally kill it. In this serial, even a low-force impact with a gold (or gold plated) object proves instantly fatal to the Cybermen.
This is the last episode of the classic series to feature the Cybermen.
The Doctor says that Lady Peinforte can use black magic, the first time in the series that magic has been referred to and not immediately dismissed as trickery.  In The Curse of Fenric, it was implied that Fenric itself had manipulated these events to some degree, leaving the question open as to whether Peinforte used magic or merely believed she was using magic.
The literal use of Nazis continued the theme begun earlier that year by Remembrance of the Daleks, which returned to the original Terry Nation metaphor of the Daleks as Nazis. ;
Many fans have commented on the similarity of this story with Remembrance as well. Both stories involve the Doctor manipulating old enemies into destroying themselves with an artefact from Gallifrey's past.

Production.
Working titles for this story included The Harbinger and Nemesis.;
In this serial, the Doctor briefly encounters Queen Elizabeth II, played by an actress. The producers attempted to get the real monarch to appear on the program (just as members of the British Royal Family had appeared as themselves on Coronation Street), but arrangements could not be agreed.;
Permission was also refused for filming at Windsor Castle. Scenes set there were instead shot at Arundel Castle.;

Outside references.
The appearance of Anton Diffring as an aging Nazi was topical as, at the time, the Federal President of Austria Kurt Waldheim (the same age as Diffring and an officer in the German army during the Second World War) was accused of being a Nazi.

Broadcast and video releases.
Episodes two and three were the second and third respectively of the series ever to be premiered outside of the United Kingdom (the first being The Five Doctors), being shown as part of a compilation broadcast of the story on New Zealand's TVNZ, after part one had shown in the UK but prior to the other two being transmitted there.;
On 3 May 1993 an extended version of this three-part serial was released on VHS. Apart from featuring footage not shown in the original broadcast, the video included a short documentary looking back at the production of the adventure.

References.


External links.
Silver Nemesis episode guide on the BBC website;
;
;

Reviews.
;
;

Target novelisation.
On Target   Silver Nemesis;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7356619" title="Gallery of confusable flags" nonfiltered="344" processed="342" dbindex="450346">
This is a gallery of pairs (or larger groupings) of flags that exhibit such similarity in design that they can be difficult to distinguish.  They are organized by the number of main colors (disregarding, for example, colors in emblems) in the simplest design of the group.





 One-color flags .
 Green .

Image:Flag of Bangladesh.svg|Flag of Bangladesh
Image:In bodoland.gif|Flag of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland, India
Image:Flag of the President of Brazil.png|Presidential Standard of Brazil
Image:Flag of Libya.svg|Flag of Libya
Image:Flag of Macau.svg|Flag of Macau
Image:Flag of Mauritania.svg|Flag of Mauritania
Image:Flag of the President of Pakistan.svg|Presidential Standard of Pakistan
Image:Portugal Presidental Flag.svg|Presidential Standard of Portugal
Image:Flag of Saudi Arabia.svg|Flag of Saudi Arabia
Image:Flag of Zaire.svg|Flag of Zaire (1971 1997)


 Red .


Image:Flag of the People's Republic of China.svg|Flag of the People's Republic of China
Image:Flag of Christiania.svg|Unofficial flag of the Freetown Christiania in Copenhagen, Denmark
Image:Flag of Hong Kong.svg|Flag of Hong Kong
Image:Flag of Kyrgyzstan.svg|Flag of Kyrgyzstan
Image:Flag of Macedonia 1991-95.svg|Flag of the Republic of Macedonia (1991 1995)
Image:Flag of the Community of Madrid.svg|Flag of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, Spain
Image:Flag of Morocco.svg|Flag of Morocco
Image:Flag es-regi\F3n de murcia 300.png|Flag of the Autonomous Community of Murcia, Spain
Image:Flag of Navarre.svg|Flag of Navarre, Spain
Image:Flag of Germany 1933.svg|Flag of Nazi Germany
Image:Norwegian Royal Standard flag.png|Royal Standard of Norway
Image:Oklahoma1911flag.png|Flag of Oklahoma (1911 1925)
Image:President-Poland-Flag.png|Presidential Standard of Poland
Image:President of Singapore Flag.svg|Presidential Standard of Singapore
Image:Flag of the Soviet Union.svg|Flag of the Soviet Union (1923 1991)
Image:Flag of Tamil Eelam.png|Flag of Tamil Eelam, Sri Lanka
Image:Standard of the President of Turkey.svg|Presidential Standard of Turkey
Image:Flag of Vietnam.svg|Flag of Vietnam





 Two-color flags .
 Blue and red .

Image:Flag of Laos.svg|Flag of Laos


 Blue and yellow .
 Crosses .

Image:Flag of Aaland.svg|Flag of \C5land


 Horizontal bicolors .

Image:Flagge Herzogtum Braunschweig.svg|Flag of the Duchy of Brunswick
Image:Flag of Perlis.svg|Flag of Perlis
Image:Flag of Nieder\F6sterreich.svg|Flag of Lower Austria, Austria
Image:Opole flaga.svg|Flag of Opole, Poland


 Blue and white .
 Stripes .

Image:Flag of Greece.svg|Flag of Greece


 Horizontal tribands .

Image:Flag of El Salvador.svg|Flag of El Salvador
Image:Flag of Nicaragua.svg|Flag of Nicaragua
Image:Flag of Argentina.svg|Flag of Argentina


 Saltires .

Image:Flag of Tenerife.svg|Flag of Tenerife
Image:Naval Ensign of Russia.svg|Ensign of the Russian Navy


 Green and red .

Image:Flag of Bangladesh.svg|Flag of Bangladesh
Image:Flag of Belarus.svg|Flag of Belarus
Image:Flag of Burkina Faso.svg|Flag of Burkina Faso
Image:Ground Force Flag of the People's Republic of China.svg|Army Flag of the People's Republic of China
Image:Flag of Comoros (1975-1978).svg|Flag of Comoros (1975 1978)
Image:Flag of the Sac and Fox Nation.svg|Flag of Sac and Fox Nation


 Green and white .


Image:Flag of Esperanto.svg|Esperanto flag
Image:Franco-Ontarian flag.svg|Franco-Ontarian flag, Canada
Image:Flag of Nigeria.svg|Flag of Nigeria
Image:Flag of Pakistan.svg|Flag of Pakistan
Image:Rhodesiaflag1.png|Flag of Rhodesia (1968 1979)


 Red (or maroon) and white .
 Horizontal bicolors .

Image:Flag of Greenland.svg|Flag of Greenland
Image:Flag of Honda.svg|Flag of Honda, Tolima
Image:Flag of Indonesia.svg|Flag of Indonesia
Image:Flag of Monaco.svg|Flag of Monaco
Image:Flag of Poland.svg|Flag of Poland
Image:Flag of Salzburg.svg|Flag of Salzburg, Austria
Image:Flag of Singapore.svg|Flag of Singapore
Image:Flag of Canton of Solothurn.svg|Flag of Solothurn
Image:Flag of Tirol.svg|Flag of Tyrol, Austria
Image:Flag of Ober\F6sterreich.svg|Flag of Upper Austria, Austria
Image:Flag of Wien.svg|Flag of Vienna, Austria
Image:Flag of Vorarlberg.svg|Flag of Vorarlberg, Austria


 Vertical bicolors .

Image:Flag of Dubai.svg|Flag of Dubai
Image:Flag of Qatar.svg|Flag of Qatar


 Horizontal triband .

Image:Flag of Latvia.svg|Flag of Latvia


 Diagonal tribands .

Image:Bandeira do Par\E1.svg|Flag of Par\E1, Brazil
Image:Flag of Strasbourg.svg|Flag of Strasbourg, France


 Cantons .

Image:Flag of Bilbao.svg|Flag of Bilbao, Spain
Image:Flag of Tonga.svg|Flag of Tonga
Image:Naval Ensign of Singapore.svg|Naval Ensign of Singapore


 Crosses .

Image:Flag of England.svg|Flag of England
Image:Flag of Georgia.svg|Flag of Georgia
Image:Flag of the Red Cross.svg|Red Cross Flag
Image:Flag of Switzerland.svg|Flag of Switzerland
Image:Flag of Mompox.svg|Flag of Santa Cruz de Mompox


 Red and yellow .

Image:Bodotigers.png|Flag of the Bodo Liberation Tigers Force, India
Image:Lodz Flaga.PNG|Flag of  \F3d , Poland
Image:Flag of Prague.svg|Flag of Prague, Czech Republic
Image:Flag of Pretoria.svg|Flag of Pretoria, South Africa
Image:Wroclaw horizontal flag.svg|Flag of Wroc aw, Poland
Image:Flag of Burgenland.svg|Flag of Burgenland, Austria
Image:Flag of Warsaw.svg|Flag of Warsaw, Poland


 Three-color flags .
 Black, red, and white .


Image:Flag of Egypt.svg|Flag of Egypt
Image:Flag of Syria.svg|Flag of Syria
Image:Flag of Iraq.svg|Flag of Iraq
Image:Flag of the German Empire.svg|Flag of the German Empire (1867-1918 & 1933-1935)


 Blue (or black), red, and yellow .
 Horizontal tricolors .
See Flag of Great Colombia.

Image:Flag of Ecuador.svg|Flag of Ecuador
Image:Flag of Venezuela.svg|Flag of Venezuela


 Vertical tricolors .

Image:Flag of Belgium.svg|Flag of Belgium
Image:Flag of Chad.svg|Flag of Chad
Image:Flag of Moldova.svg|Flag of Moldova (obverse)
Image:Flag of Romania.svg|Flag of Romania


 Blue, red, and white .

 Horizontal tricolors .

Image:Flag of Luxembourg.svg|Flag of Luxembourg
Image:Banderademaracaibo.JPG|Flag of Maracaibo, Venezuela
Image:Flag of the Netherlands.svg|Flag of the Netherlands
Image:Flag of Paraguay.svg|Flag of Paraguay (obverse)
Image:Flag of Russia.svg|Flag of Russia
Image:Flag of Serbia (state).svg|Flag of Serbia
Image:Flag of Slovakia.svg|Flag of Slovakia
Image:Flag of Slovenia.svg|Flag of Slovenia
Image:Et southern.png|Flag of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region, Ethiopia
Image:Flag of Republika Srpska.svg|Flag of Republika Srpska
Image:Valleduparflag.svg|Flag of Valledupar, Colombia


 Horizontal stripes .

Image:Flag of Thailand.svg|Flag of Thailand


 Blue at hoist .

Image:Flag of North Carolina.svg|Flag of North Carolina
Image:Flag of Texas.svg|Flag of Texas


 Blue canton .

Image:Bandeira da Bahia.svg|Flag of Bahia, Brazil
Image:Flag of the Republic of China.svg|Flag of Taiwan
Image:Flag of Samoa.svg|Flag of Samoa
Image:Flag of Myanmar.svg|Flag of Myanmar
Image:Flag of Chile.svg|Flag of Chile
Image:Flag of Liberia.svg|Flag of Liberia
Image:Flag of Malaysia.svg|Flag of Malaysia
Image:Flag of the United States.svg|Flag of the United States


 Red at hoist .

Image:Flag of West Papua.svg|Flag of West Papua


 Triangle at hoist .

Image:Flag of Puerto Rico.svg|Flag of Puerto Rico


 Scandinavian Cross .

Image:Flag of Iceland.svg|Flag of Iceland
Image:Flag of Norway.svg|Flag of Norway


 British Blue Ensign .

 Southern Cross .

Image:Flag of New Zealand.svg|Flag of New Zealand
Image:Flag of Victoria (Australia).svg|Flag of Victoria


 Green, orange, and white .
 Horizontal tricolors .

Image:Flag of Niger.svg|Flag of Niger


 Vertical tricolors .

Image:Flag of Ireland.svg|Flag of Ireland


 Green, red, and yellow .

 Horizontal tricolors .

Image:Flag of Ghana.svg|Flag of Ghana
Image:Flag of Lithuania.svg|Flag of Lithuania
Image:Flag_of_Bolivia_(state).svg|Flag of Bolivia


 Vertical tricolors .

Image:Flag of Guinea.svg|Flag of Guinea
Image:Flag of Los Angeles, California.svg|Flag of Los Angeles
Image:Flag of Mali.svg|Flag of Mali
Image:Flag of Senegal.svg|Flag of Senegal


 Others .

Image:Flag of Benin.svg|Flag of Benin
Image:Flag of Guinea-Bissau.svg|Flag of Guinea-Bissau
Image:Flag of the Republic of the Congo.svg|Flag of the Republic of the Congo


 Green, red, and white .

Image:Flag of Bulgaria.svg|Flag of Bulgaria
Image:Flag of Hungary.svg|Flag of Hungary
Image:Flag of Italy.svg|Flag of Italy
Image:Flag of Iran.svg|Flag of Iran
Image:Flag of Madagascar.svg|Flag of Madagascar
Image:Flag of Manizales.svg|Flag of Manizales, Colombia
Image:Flag of Mexico.svg|Flag of Mexico
Image:Flag of Oman.svg|Flag of Oman
Image:Flag of Sincelejo.svg|Flag of Sincelejo, Colombia


 Four-color flags .
 Black, green, red, and white .


Image:Flag of Kuwait.svg|Flag of Kuwait
Image:Flag of the State of Las Bela.svg|Flag of Las Bela
Image:Flag of Palestine.svg|Flag of Palestine
Image:Flag of Sudan.svg|Flag of Sudan
Image:Flag of the United Arab Emirates.svg|Flag of the United Arab Emirates
Image:Flag of Western Sahara.svg|Flag of Western Sahara


 More than four colors .
 Rainbow flags .


Image:Gay flag.svg|Gay pride/freedom flag
Image:PACE-flag.svg|Peace flag
Image:ICA flag.svg|Cooperative movement flag
Image:Banner of the Inca Empire.svg|Banner of the Inca Empire
Image:Banner of the Inca Empire (alternate).svg|Banner of the Inca Empire (alternate version)
Image:Flag of Cusco.svg|Flag of Cusco, Peru
Image:FlagoftheJewishAutonomousOblast.svg|Flag of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast, Russia
Image:Flag of the Republic of China 1912-1928.svg|Flag of the Republic of China (1912 1928)
Image:Flag of Buddhism.svg|Buddhist flag










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5987398" title="Sidewinder (Hersheypark)" nonfiltered="345" processed="343" dbindex="450347">

 
Sidewinder is a steel roller coaster located at Hersheypark in Hershey, Pennsylvania. While the coaster itself is a standard Vekoma Boomerang, this installation is notable because it was the first Vekoma Boomarang to use Vekoma cars (previous Boomarangs used Arrow cars). This ride was also the first coaster installed in the park in 14 years since the SooperDooperLooper in 1977.

The ride begins with riders being pulled backwards out of the station up a hill by a cable winch.  At the top of the hill, the train is released, and speeds through the station and goes through the ride's three inversions, including one cobra roll and a loop.  The train goes up a second lift hill and, when it reaches the top, the lift disengages, and the train falls backwards through the inversions, returning to the station.

Trivia.
Sidewinder was built on a former catering area. This moved to the area that at the time was occupied by Kaptain Kid's Kove, and became Trailblazer's catering pavilion.;
When the ride opened, a refreshment stand opened in the back of the line. It still stands today, although the stand closed after a few short seasons.

References.





 

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5216812" title="Life Ball" nonfiltered="346" processed="344" dbindex="450348">



Life Ball is Europe's largest AIDS charity event. Begun in 1993, it takes place annually at the city hall in Vienna, Austria. The event is organized by Gery Keszler.

Life Ball consists of two parts: a grand opening ceremony including a fashion show performed on a giant catwalk at Rathausplatz, the square in front of the city hall, which is free for everyone, and a fancy dress party inside the city hall hosted by Vienna's mayor, Michael H\E4upl, for which a limited number of tickets (c. 4,000) is available.

Already in its first year, donations exceeded \A4 809,000; in 2005, they peaked at \A4 1,017,600. Part of the money goes to the Elton John AIDS Foundation; Sir Elton himself is a regular guest at the ball.

At Life Ball 2006, prominent guests included Sharon Stone (in her capacity as chairwoman of the American Foundation for AIDS Research), Catherine Deneuve, Naomi Campbell, Anastacia, and Nina Hagen.

Each year the fashion show highlights the work of a well-known designer, with professional models as well as celebrities on the catwalk. In the past, the latter group has included Til Schweiger, Kylie Minogue, Cyndi Lauper, and Dolly Buster.

Fashion designers since the inception of Life Ball:

 1993 - Thierry Mugler;
 1994 - John Galliano;
 1995 - Jean-Paul Gaultier;
 1996 - Paco Rabanne;
 1997 - Vivienne Westwood;
 1998 - Jean-Charles de Castelbajac;
 1999 - Christian Lacroix, Philip Treacy, Vivienne Westwood, Jeremy Scott, Paco Rabanne and Julien Macdonald;
 2000 - Walter van Beirendonck, Olivier Theyskens, Seredin & Vasiliev, Shirtology and Benoit M\E9l\E9ard;
 2001 - Roberto Cavalli;
 2002 - Moschino;
 2003 - Missoni;
 2004 - Gianfranco Ferr\E9 ;
 2005 - Donatella Versace;
 2006 - Renzo Rosso (Diesel);

 External links .

 http://www.lifeball.at/;
 http://www.stylebible.org/;
 Conny de Beauclair's photo archives (click on "Event w\E4hlen");





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3127212" title="Newberry Springs, California" nonfiltered="347" processed="345" dbindex="450349">
Newberry Springs, California is a 117 square mile unincorporated area of San Bernardino County. Interstate freeways I-15 and I-40 cross Newberry Springs along with the historic Route 66. It is home to an abundance of man-made water ski lakes and was the main filming location for the motion picture Bagdad Caf\E9.

 Geography .
Newberry Springs is located at  (34.8272104, -116.6883644).

 References .
http://www.newberrysprings.com/





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="439084" title="Doctor Gloom" nonfiltered="348" processed="346" dbindex="450350">
 
Doctor Gloom (real name: Hector von Gloom) is a fictional supervillain from Archie Comics, who first appeared in The World of Archie #599 in 1989. He is the monarch of the country of Blatvaria, a small fictional eastern European country.  He is a parody of the Marvel Comics character Doctor Doom. Doctor Gloom wears a mask because his unhappy face makes everyone feel sad. He also wears a watch with his face on it.

Nothing has been revealed about his early life, but it is known that he has gone to college in America.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="998492" title="Flavius Caper" nonfiltered="349" processed="347" dbindex="450351">
Flavius Caper, Latin grammarian, flourished during the 2nd century.

He devoted special attention to the early Latin writers, and is highly spoken of by Priscian. Caper was the author of two works--De Lingua Latina and De Dubiis Generibus. These works in their original form are lost; but two short treatises entitled De Orthographia and De Verbis Dubiis have come down to us under his name, probably excerpts from the original works, with later additions by an unknown writer.

See F Osann, De Flavio Capro (1849), and review by W Christ in Philologus, xviii. 165-170 (1862), where several editions of other important grammarians are noticed; G Keil, De Flavio Grammatico, in Dissertationes Halenses, x. (1889); text in H Keil's Grammatici Latini, vii.

References.
;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="996245" title="THRAK" nonfiltered="350" processed="348" dbindex="450352">


THRAK is an album by the band King Crimson released in 1995, a companion to the preceding mini-album VROOOM (1994). This album was recorded in the "double trio" format of King Crimson. The track "B'Boom" features the first drum solo to appear on a King Crimson studio album.

Track listing.
(All songs written by Adrian Belew, Bill Bruford, Robert Fripp, Trey Gunn, Tony Levin and Pat Mastelotto)
"VROOOM"   4:41;
"Marine 475"   2:44;
"Dinosaur"   6:39;
"Walking on Air"   4:40;
"B'Boom"   5:13;
"THRAK"   4:01;
"Inner Garden (Part I)"   1:49;
"People"   5:56;
"Radio (Part I)"   0:46;
"One Time"   5:24;
"Radio (Part II)"   1:05;
"Inner Garden (Part II)"   1:18;
"Sex Sleep Eat Drink Dream"   4:53;
"VROOOM VROOOM"   5:52;
"VROOOM VROOOM (Coda)"   3:03;

Personnel.
Robert Fripp   guitar, mellotron;
Adrian Belew   guitar, vocals;
Tony Levin   bass guitar, Stick, Ned Steinberger upright bass, vocals;
Trey Gunn   Stick, vocals;
Bill Bruford   drums, percussion;
Pat Mastelotto   drums, percussion;

External links.
Lyrics;













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5801210" title="Bret Barberie" nonfiltered="351" processed="349" dbindex="450353">


Bret Edward Barberie (born August 16, 1967, in Long Beach, California) was a Major League Baseball infielder.  He is an alumnus of the University of Southern California.

Drafted by the Montreal Expos in the 7th round of the 1988 MLB amateur draft, Barberie would make his Major League Baseball debut with the Montreal Expos on June 16, 1991, and appear in his final game on June 22, 1996.

Barberie was a member of the inaugural Florida Marlins team that began play in Major League Baseball in 1993. He is the former husband of Jillian Barberie.

Teams.
 Montreal Expos:  1991-1992;
 Florida Marlins:  1993-1994;
 Baltimore Orioles:  1995;
 Chicago Cubs:  1996;

External links.
Baseball Reference;














ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="491631" title="Graham Parker" nonfiltered="352" processed="350" dbindex="450354">

. Photo: July 13, 2003.]]Graham Parker (born November 18 1950 in London) is an English rock singer and songwriter.

Life and career.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Graham Parker sang in small-time English bands such as the Black Rockers and Deep Cut Three while working in dead-end jobs like a glove factory and a petrol station. In 1975, he recorded a few demo tracks in London with Dave Robinson, who would shortly found Stiff Records and who connected Parker with his first backing band of note.  

Graham Parker and the Rumour (Brinsley Schwarz and Martin Belmont on guitar, Bob Andrews on keyboards, Andrew Bodnar on bass and Steve Goulding on drums) formed in the summer of 1975 and began doing the rounds of the British pub rock scene. Their first album, Howlin' Wind, was released to acclaim in 1976 and rapidly followed by the stylistically similar Heat Treatment. A mixture of rock, ballads, and reggae-influenced numbers, these albums reflected Parker's early influences (Motown, The Rolling Stones, Bob Dylan,Van Morrison) and contained the songs which formed the core of Parker's live shows -- "White Honey", "Soul Shoes", "Lady Doctor", "Fool's Gold", and his early signature tune "Don't Ask Me Questions", which hit the top 40 in the UK. Parker and the Rumour built a reputation as incendiary live performers: the promotional album Live at Marble Arch was recorded at this time and shows off their raw onstage style. Like the pub rock scene he was loosely tied to, the singer's class-conscious lyrics and passionate vocals signaled a renewal of rock music as punk rock began to flower in Britain. 

Parker preceded the other "new wave" English singer-songwriters, Elvis Costello and Joe Jackson. Early in his career his work was often compared favorably to theirs, and for decades journalists would continue to categorize them together, long after the artists' work had diverged. Characteristically, Parker would not hesitate to criticize this habit with caustic wit. 

The first 2 albums' critical acclaim was generally not matched with LP sales. Graham Parker and the Rumour appeared on BBC television's Top of the Pops in 1976, performing their top 30 hit version of The Trammps' "Hold Back the Night".

At this point, Parker began to change his songwriting style, reflecting his desire to break into the American market. The first fruits of this new direction appeared on Stick To Me (1977). The album broke the top 20 on the UK charts but divided critical opinions, particularly with numbers like "The Heat in Harlem" -- the band's longest song at the time. Nick Lowe's production also came under fire: some critics complained that the band sounded thin and Parker's voice was mixed down, when in fact a studio mishap had compromised the original recordings and forced the group to remake the album on short notice. An official live album The Parkerilla, issued in 1978, showed that the Rumour's vibrant live style remained strong, though some critics saw Parker in a holding pattern 2 years after Heat Treatment. It was a crucial juncture for the young musician. 

Parker had long been dissatisfied with the performance of his US record company, Mercury Records, finally issuing in the 1979 single "Mercury Poisoning", a public kiss-off reminiscent of the Sex Pistols' "EMI". 

Energized by his new label, Arista, and the presence of legendary producer Jack Nitzsche, Parker followed with Squeezing Out Sparks, widely held to be the best album of his career. For this album, The Rumour's brass section, prominent on all previous albums, was jettisoned, resulting in a spare, intense rock backing for some of Parker's most brilliant songs. Of particular note was "You Can't Be Too Strong", one of rock music's rare songs to confront the topic of abortion, however ambivalently. 

Squeezing out Sparks is still ranked by fans and critics alike as one of the finest rock albums ever made.  Rolling Stone named it #335  on their 2003 list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.  In an early 1987 Rolling Stone list of their top 100 albums from 1967-1987, Squeezing Out Sparks was ranked at #45, while Howlin' Wind came in at #54 . The companion live album Live Sparks, sent to US radio stations as part of a concerted promotional campaign for Parker, showed how well the songs worked on stage, and included another snapping r&b cover, the Jackson 5's "I Want You Back". 

Although marginally less intense than its predecessor, 1980's The Up Escalator was Parker's highest-charting album in the UK and featured glossy production by Jimmy Iovine and guest vocals from Bruce Springsteen. Nevertheless it was Parker's last album with the Rumour, although guitarist Brinsley Schwarz would join most of the singer's albums through the decade's end. 

The 1980s were Parker's most commercially successful years, with well-financed recordings and radio and video play. Over the decade, the British press turned unkind to him, but he continued to tour the world with top backing bands, and his 1985 release Steady Nerves included his only US Top 40 hit, "Wake Up (Next to You)". The singer began living mostly in the United States during this time.

An uncompromising attitude toward his music ensured that Parker would clash with the changing priorities of the major label music business, and the label changes came quickly after the mid-1980s. This situation partly accounts for the remarkable number of compilation albums in Graham Parker's discography. Particularly unproductive was Parker's tenure at Atlantic Records, where he has said he was told to collaborate with other songwriters and to focus on "a big drum sound." Instead, Parker ended the deal and signed to RCA Records. He began producing his own recordings and stripping down his sound with The Mona Lisa's Sister, a success in the new "modern rock" format. The groundbreaking work gained the singer renewed critical attention for his followup albums. 

After the movingly personal 12 Haunted Episodes, his first release on an independent record label, Parker grew quiet in the late 1990s, but began an extraordinarily active period in 2001, with the UK rerelease of his early Rumour work, and with Deepcut to Nowhere, a penetrating collection of new songs that seemed intended to reflect comprehensively on the singer's life and aims.

The new work continued with 2004's Your Country, which was released on Chicago-based indie Bloodshot Records and, while presented as a flirtation with country music, had only marginally rootsier sound than Parker's norm. Following in 2005 was Songs Of No Consequence, an uptempo rock and roll collection quickly recorded with sometime backing band, the Figgs. A show from the ensuing tour with the Figgs broadcasted on FM radio became a live album in 2006. In March of 2007, a new full-length, Don't Tell Columbus is due, marking Parker's fourth album in three years. 

In addition to his records, Parker published a set of short stories, Carp Fishing on Valium, in June 2000. His second book, a novel, The Other Life of Brian, appeared in September 2003.

Discography.
Graham Parker & The Rumour
Howlin' Wind (1976);
Heat Treatment (1976);
The Pink Parker EP (1977);
Stick To Me (1977);
The Parkerilla (1978);
Squeezing Out Sparks (1979);
The Up Escalator (1980);
Graham Parker
Another Grey Area, 1982;
The Real Macaw, 1983;
Graham Parker & The Shot
Steady Nerves, 1985;
Graham Parker
The Mona Lisa's Sister, 1988;
Human Soul, 1989;
Struck by Lightning, 1991;
Burning Questions, 1992;
Graham Parker's Christmas Cracker EP, 1994;
12 Haunted Episodes, 1995;
Acid Bubblegum, 1996;
Loose Monkeys (outtakes), 1999 ;
That's When You Know (1976 demos + Live at Marble Arch), 2001;
Deepcut To Nowhere, 2001;
Your Country, 2004;
Songs of No Consequence, 2005;
Don't Tell Columbus, 2007;
Live.
Graham Parker & The Rumour
Live at Marble Arch, 1976;
The Parkerilla, 1978;
Live Sparks, 1979 ;
Graham Parker
Live! Alone in America, 1989 ;
Live Alone! Discovering Japan, 1993;
Live from New York, 1996 ;
BBC Live in Concert (compilation 1977-91), 1996 ;
The Last Rock and Roll Tour, 1997 (with the Figgs as his backup band);
Not If It Pleases Me (BBC sessions 1976-77), 1998;
King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Graham Parker (live 1983), 2003 ;
Live Cuts From Somewhere, 2003 (with the Figgs as his backup band);
!Live Alone: The Bastard of Belgium, 2005 ;
Yer Cowboy Boot, 2005;
103 Degrees in June, 2006 (with the Figgs as his backup band);

Compilations.
The Best of Graham Parker and the Rumour 1980;
Look Back in Anger: Classic Performances, 1982;
It Don't Mean a Thing If It Ain't Got That Swing, 1984;
Pourin' It All Out: The Mercury Years, 1986;
The Best of Graham Parker 1988-1991, 1992;
Passion Is No Ordinary Word: The Graham Parker Anthology 1993;
No Holding Back, 1996;
Vertigo Compilation;
Temporary Beauty, 1997;
Stiffs & Demons;
Master Hits, 1999;
The Ultimate Collection;
You Can't Be Too Strong: An Introduction to Graham Parker and the Rumour, 2001;
The Official Art Vandelay Tapes, 2003;
A Fair Forgery of Pink Floyd, 2003 (Graham Parker performs Pink Floyd's Comfortably Numb);
The Official Art Vandelay Tapes Vol 2, 2005;

Singles.


References.
 Guinness Book of British Hit Singles - 16th Edition - ISBN 0-85112-190-X;
 Guinness Book of British Hit Albums - 7th Edition - ISBN 0-85112-619-7;
 Guinness Rockopedia - ISBN 0-85112-072-5;
 The Great Rock Discography - 5th Edition - ISBN 1-84195-017-3;

External links.
Official website;
Struck By Lightning: discography, gigography, bibliography, and more;
The Parkertorium;
Biography at AMG website;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="69352" title="Rephidim" nonfiltered="353" processed="351" dbindex="450355">


Rephidim was one of the places (or "stations") visited by the Israelites during their exodus from Egypt.

At Rephidim, the Israelites found no water to drink, and in their distress they blamed Moses for their troubles, to the point where Moses feared that they would stone him (Exodus 17:4). God commanded Moses to strike a certain "rock in Horeb," which caused a stream to flow from it, providing enough water for all of the people.

Afterwards, the Amalekites attacked the Israelites while encamped at Rephidim, but were defeated (Exodus 17:8-16). They were the "first of the nations" to make war against Israel (Numbers 24:20).

One proposal places Rephidim in the Wadi Feiran, near its junction with the Wadi esh-Sheikh. Leaving Rephidim, the Israelites advanced into the Sinai Wilderness (Exodus 19:1-2; Numbers 33:14-15), possibly marching through the two passes of the Wadi Solaf and the Wadi esh-Sheikh, which converge at the entrance to the er-Rahah plain (which would then be identified with the "Sinai Wilderness"), which is two miles long and about half a mile broad. See also Meribah.

The name "Rephidim" (Hebrew:         ) may mean supports.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1554422" title="Epimenides (crater)" nonfiltered="354" processed="352" dbindex="450356">

Epimenides is a lunar crater that is located in the southwestern part of the Moon's near side, just to the east of the Hainzel crater formation. Just to the north and northeast is Lacus Timoris, a small lunar mare.

The outer rim of this crater is roughly circular, but uneven due to the irregular terrain in which it is located. The southern edge is distended where a smaller formation has overlapped the side. The interior floor is relatively level and featureless.

Satellite craters.
By convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater mid-point that is closest to Epimenides crater.



References.
 ;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1296989" title="Speranza Park" nonfiltered="355" processed="353" dbindex="450357">
Speranza Park is a former baseball ground located in Toledo, Ohio. The ground was home to the Toledo Black Pirates during the 1890 season.






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="763928" title="Friedrich Ludwig Abresch" nonfiltered="356" processed="354" dbindex="450358">
Friedrich Ludwig Abresch (29 December 1699, Homburg - 1782) was a Dutch philologist of German origins.

Born in Homburg, the reasons that led him to move to the Netherlands are uncertain. He visited the college in Herborn and the University of Utrecht. He was a scholar of Karl Andreas Duker and Arnold Drakenborch. However he followed rather the teachings of Tiberius Hemsterhuis and engaged in Greek literature as far as his work allowed this. 

In 1723 he was appointed co-rector, in 1725 rector in Middelburg. After the death of his first wife, he remarried a rich woman from Zwolle and willingly accepted the offer to take the local rectorate. He remained in office until his death in 1782, remaining lusty and hale all the time.

Publications.

 several articles in Miscellaneae observationes, beginning with volume 7.
 Animadversiones in Aeschylum libri II, 1743;
 Lectionum Aristaenetearum libri II, 1749;
 Virorum aliquot eruditorum in Arist. coniecturae, 1752;
 Dilucidationes Thucydideae 1753, 1755;
 Animadversiones in Aeschylum libri III, 1763;

Sources.

 Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie - online version;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="66037" title="Nicholas Lyndhurst" nonfiltered="357" processed="355" dbindex="450359">


Nicholas Lyndhurst (born  20 April 1961 in Emsworth, Hampshire) is an English actor. 

A child student at Corona Stage Academy, he appeared in a succession of commercials and children's films in the early 1970s, and first gained national recognition at the age of seventeen in the sitcom Butterflies, in which he played the character Adam. He then played the teenage son of Norman Stanley 'Fletch' Fletcher in Going Straight before achieving stardom in the series Only Fools and Horses in which he played Rodney Trotter, the younger brother of the main character Del Boy. 

This programme started as a small comedy in 1981 and rapidly grew in popularity until it reached its peak in 1996 with its Christmas Day show in the UK. During his period, Lyndhurst also appeared in ITV's The Two of Us and The Piglet Files, as well as in a number of stage performances.

In 1993 he played the lead character of Gary Sparrow in science fiction sitcom Goodnight Sweetheart. At around the same time, he was also the face and voice on the TV and radio commercials for the telecommunications chain People's Phone.

In between 1997 and 1999 Nicholas Lyndhurst was the public face of the stationery chain store WH Smith, starring as all four members of a family in their adverts. He won a BAFTA for his acting in the adverts.

He recently appeared as Cruella De Vil's chauffeur, Reg Farnsworth at the Children's Party at the Palace in 2006.

Lyndhurst has returned to the BBC with his first new sitcom for thirteen years, After You've Gone in which he plays a divorced dad moving back into the marital home to look after his daughter (Danielle Harmer) and son (Ryan Sampson) with his mother-in-law, played by Celia Imrie, after his ex-wife goes to work as a recovery nurse on a third world disaster relief mission. 

He is married with a young son. Lyndhurst has a passion for outdoor activities, including flying aeroplanes, surfing and deep-sea diving. 

TV.
Anne of Avonlea;
The Burt Bacharach Show;
David Copperfield;
The Dick Emery Show;
Fairies;
Father's Day;
Going Straight;
Butterflies;
Goodnight Sweetheart;
Gulliver's Travels;
Heidi;
The Kenny Everett Christmas Show;
The Lenny Henry Show;
Losing Her;
Only Fools and Horses;
Our Show;
Peter Pan;
The Piglet Files;
The Prince and the Pauper;
Spearhead;
Stalag Luft;
To Serve Them All My Days;
The Two of Us;
Wilderness Challenge;
              After You've Gone;

Films.
Bequest to the Nation;
Bullshot;
Endless Nights;
Gunbus;
Lassie;














ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8005401" title="Tron (comic)" nonfiltered="358" processed="356" dbindex="450360">

Tron: The Ghost in the machine is a comic book produced by Slave Labor Graphics. It continues the storyline of the film Tron from 1982 and the video game Tron 2.0 from 2003. 

Production notes.
In 2003, the comicbook publisher 88 MPH announced a mini-series titled: Tron 2.0: Derezzed. This comic was canceled before any issues were released. In 2005, Slave Labor Graphics announced its comic, . The first issue was released in April of 2006, the second issue in November of the same year with the third issue scheduled for December of 2006. The comic book is written by Landry Walker and Eric Jones, with art in the first two issues by Louie De Martinis. The artist on the third issue is Mike Shoykhet.

Storyline.
The comic book is set 6 months after the events of Tron 2.0, when the video game programmer, Jet Bradley, returns to the computer world against his will.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6283777" title="Julia Sutton" nonfiltered="359" processed="357" dbindex="450361">
Julia Sutton is an English actress and singer. 

She appeared in the second series of Albert and Victoria, Upstairs, Downstairs, Dixon of Dock Green and Father Brown. 

Also, Julia Sutton had appeared on stage as Hortense in Martin Guerre in 1995, an as The Bird Women in Mary Poppins from 2004 to 2005. 

 

External links.
;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="604447" title="Lesmahagow" nonfiltered="360" processed="358" dbindex="450362">
Lesmahagow (Gaelic: Lios MoChuda) is a small town on the edge of moorland, near Lanark in the central belt of Scotland, and is also known as Abbey Green.

The town has two congregations in the Church of Scotland, namely Lesmahagow Old Parish Church and Abbeygreen Church, plus churches of other denominations.

The Priory, founded by Benedictine monks in 1144, no longer stands.

Twin towns.
(Since 1975)
Yvetot in France;
Hemmingen in Germany;

External links.
Lesmahagow Community Website;
The Annals of Lesmahagow;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1061925" title="Cantona" nonfiltered="361" processed="359" dbindex="450363">

Cantona is a relatively unknown archaeological site in Mexico. It is located in the state of Puebla, on the border with Veracruz, about an hour's drive from the city of Puebla and about an hour and a half from Xalapa, Veracruz.  Limited archaeological work has been done at the site, and only about 10% of the site can be seen.  Twenty four ballcourts have been documented at Cantona, as well as a number of small pyramids.  

Cantona is unusual among archaeological sites in Mexico as all of its architecture was built with dry-laid stones.  Mortar was not employed, and it is the weight of the stones that holds the architecture together.  

It is believed to have been a military city. However, there is still much to learn about Cantona.

References.

Garcia Cook, Angel, and Beatriz Leonor Merino Carrion (1998) Cantona: Urbe Prehispanica en el Altiplano Central de Mexico.  Latin American Antiquity 9:191-216


External links.
Cantona, the Fortifed City ;
Cantona Archaeological Ruins;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="87960" title="Douglas County, Nevada" nonfiltered="362" processed="360" dbindex="450364">


Douglas County is a county located in the northwestern part of the U.S. state of Nevada.  As of 2000, the population was 41,259. But as of 2005 the population is 50,108 .

 History .
Trading posts were established in the area starting in the 1850s. Named for 
Stephen A. Douglas, famous for his 1860 Presidential campaign debates with Abraham Lincoln, Douglas County was one of the first nine counties formed in 1861 by the Nevada territorial legislature.

 Law and government .
The county seat is Minden, after having been moved from Genoa in 1915.

Various services run by the county include parks, firefighting, and Minden-Tahoe Airport.

Geography.
Douglas County is in northwestern Nevada in the southwestern United States.  Stretching from Carson Valley and running up into the Sierra Nevada, the county is bordered on the west by California, and contains half of Lake Tahoe, which is split across the two states. Carson City, the state capital, lies to the north, and Lyon County to the east.

According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 1,910 km\B2 (738 mi\B2).  1,838 km\B2 (710 mi\B2) of it is land and 72 km\B2 (28 mi\B2) of it (3.77%) is water.

Major Highways.
 U.S. Route 50;
 U.S. Route 395;
 Nevada State Route 88;
 Nevada State Route 206;
 Nevada State Route 207;


Adjacent Counties.
 Carson City, Nevada - north;
 Lyon County, Nevada - east;
 Mono County, California - southeast;
 Alpine County, California - south;
 El Dorado County, California - west;
 Placer County, California - northwest;

Demographics.
As of the census\B2 of 2000, there were 41,259 people, 16,401 households, and 11,890 families residing in the county.  The population density was 22/km\B2 (58/mi\B2).  There were 19,006 housing units at an average density of 10/km\B2 (27/mi\B2).  The racial makeup of the county was 91.88% White, 0.31% Black or African American, 1.68% Native American, 1.25% Asian, 0.15% Pacific Islander, 2.54% from other races, and 2.19% from two or more races.  7.41% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.

There were 16,401 households out of which 30.70% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 60.50% were married couples living together, 8.00% had a female householder with no husband present, and 27.50% were non-families. 20.70% of all households were made up of individuals and 6.60% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.50 and the average family size was 2.88.

In the county the population was spread out with 24.00% under the age of 18, 5.50% from 18 to 24, 26.40% from 25 to 44, 28.90% from 45 to 64, and 15.20% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 42 years. For every 100 females there were 102.10 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 100.70 males.

The median income for a household in the county was $51,849, and the median income for a family was $57,092. Males had a median income of $40,436 versus $28,762 for females. The per capita income for the county was $27,288.  About 5.80% of families and 7.30% of the population were below the poverty line, including 9.70% of those under age 18 and 5.30% of those age 65 or over.

 Cities and towns .
Gardnerville;
Gardnerville Ranchos;
Indian Hills;
Johnson Lane;
Kingsbury;
Minden;
Stateline;
Zephyr Cove-Round Hill Village;
Genoa;

External links.
Official website;
The Record Courier - Local Newspaper;
Carson Valley Chamber of Commerce & Visitors Authority;











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6502911" title="Konstantin Klyagin" nonfiltered="363" processed="361" dbindex="450365">
Konstantin Nikolayevich Klyagin (in Russian:                             ), short is Konst, is a professional software engineer, author of magazine articles about software and an open source software developer born in 1981 in Kharkov, Ukraine. His most famous program is centericq. Currently Konst lives in Berlin, Germany.


External links.
 http://thekonst.net/ - personal WWW page;
 http://thekonst.livejournal.com/ - personal LiveJournal blog (in Russian);


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="483974" title="Digital AMPS" nonfiltered="364" processed="362" dbindex="450366">

IS-54 and IS-136 are second-generation (2G) mobile phone systems, known as Digital AMPS (D-AMPS).  It is used throughout the Americas, particularly in the United States and Canada.  D-AMPS is considered end-of-life, and existing networks are in the process of being replaced by GSM/GPRS and CDMA2000 technologies.  

Although this system is most often referred to as TDMA,  this name is based on the acronym for time division multiple access, a common multiple access technique which is used by multiple protocols, including GSM, as well as in IS-54 and IS-136. 
The two different uses of this term can be confusing.  TDMA (the technique) is also used in the GSM standard.  However, TDMA (the standard, i.e. IS-136) has been competing against GSM and systems based on Code division multiple access (CDMA) for adoption by the network carriers, although it is now being phased out in favor of GSM technology.

D-AMPS uses existing AMPS channels and allows for smooth transition between digital and analog systems in the same area.  Capacity was increased over the preceding analog design by dividing each 30 kHz channel pair into three time slots (hence time division) and digitally compressing the voice data, yielding three times the call capacity in a single cell.  A digital system also made calls more secure because analog scanners could not access digital signals.  Calls were encrypted, although the algorithm used (CMEA) was later found to be weak. 

IS-136 added a number of features to the original IS-54 specification, including text messaging, circuit switched data (CSD), and an improved compression protocol.  SMS and CSD were both available as part of the GSM protocol, and IS-136 implemented them in a nearly identical fashion.

Large IS-136 networks include Cingular Wireless and U.S. Cellular in the United States, and Rogers Wireless in Canada.  Cingular (who purchased AT&T Wireless in October 2004) and Rogers Wireless have upgraded their existing IS-136 networks to GSM/GPRS, while US Cellular is migrating most of their network to CDMA2000.  Rogers Wireless removed all 1900 MHz IS-136 in 2003, and is slowly doing the same with their 800 MHz spectrum as the equipment fails.  It is not unusual for a Rogers D-AMPS customer to have coverage in a specific location one day, and then none in that same area the next.  Rogers will  deactivate their IS-136 network (along with AMPS) in May 2007.

IS-54 is the first mobile communication system which had provision for security, and the first to employ TDMA technology.
Introduction.

IS-54 stands for Interim Standard-54, which is a mobile communication standard employing digital technology. Standards, in general establish the compatibility and performance requirements for technology. Standards assist manufacturers, service providers, and end users to build buy and use products that provide mutually agreed upon features, functionality, and performance. Standards also facilitate the interoperability of products built by different manufacturers. With standards, the service provider and end user have more choices in products than would otherwise be available, and likewise manufacturers have greater access to market than otherwise.

IS-54 was standardized by Electronic Industries Alliance (EIA) and Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) together. It later became an American National Standard when it got approved by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). When an interim standard becomes an American National Standard, the IS designator is dropped. The ANSI designation of IS-54 is ANSI/TIA/EIA-627, but this standard is still popularly referred to as IS-54.

IS-54 maintains compatibility with Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS) in many ways. It is a digital extension of AMPS and so it is also quite widely known as Digital AMPS (D-AMPS). Another name for IS-54 is United States Digital Cellular (USDC). But sometimes D-AMPS and USDC also refers to the other prominent interim standard IS-136.

History.
                                     
The evolution of mobile communication has been almost wholly in 3 different geographic regions. The standards that were born in these regions were quite independent. The 3 regions are North America, Europe and Japan. The earlier mobile or wireless technologies were wholly analog and are collectively known as 1st Generation (1G) technologies. In Japan, the 1G standards were Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT) and the high capacity version of it (Hicap). The European systems were not common and the  European Union  viewpoint that is visible in the later technologies was absent. Various 1G standards that were in use in Europe include C-Netz (in Germany and Austria), Comviq (in Sweden), Nordic Mobile Telephones/450 (NMT450), NMT900 (both in Nordic countries), NMT-F (French version of NMT900), Radiocom 2000 (RC2000)(in France), Total Access Communication System(TACS)(in the United Kingdom). North American standards were Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS) and Narrow-band AMPS (N-AMPS).

Out of the 1G standards the most successful was the AMPS system. Despite the Nordic countries cooperation, the European intellect got divided to various standards and the Japanese standards didn t get much attention. Developed by Bell Labs in the 1970s and first used commercially in the United States in 1983, AMPS operates in the 800 and 1900 MHz band in the United States and is the most widely distributed analog cellular standard. AMPS was undoubtedly, the leader of the 1G mobile communication systems. The success of AMPS kicked start the mobile age in the North America. 

The markets showed an increasing demand because it had higher capacity and mobility than the then existing mobile communication standards. For instance, the Bell Labs system in the 1970s could carry only 12 calls at a time throughout all of New York City. AMPS used Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA which meant each cell site would transmit on different frequencies, allowing many cell sites to be built near each other. 

However, AMPS had many disadvantages too. Primarily, it didn t have the potential to support the increasing demand for mobile communication usage. Each cell site did not have much capacity for carrying higher numbers of calls. It also had a poor security system which allowed people to steal a phone's serial code to use for making illegal calls. All of these triggered  the search for a more capable system.

The quest resulted in IS-54, the first American 2G standard. In March 1990, the North American cellular network incorporated the IS-54B standard, the first North American dual mode digital cellular standard. This standard won over Motorola's Narrowband AMPS or N-AMPS, an analog scheme that increased capacity by cutting down voice channels from 30 kHz to 10 kHz. IS-54, on the other hand, increased capacity by digital means using TDMA, time division multiple access, protocols. This method separates calls by time, placing parts of individual conversations on the same frequency, one after the next. TDMA tripled call capacity.

Using IS-54, a cellular carrier could convert any of its systems' analog voice channels to digital. A dual mode phone uses digital channels where available and defaults to regular AMPS where they are not. IS-54 was, in fact, backward compatible with analog cellular and indeed co-exists on the same radio channels as AMPS. No analog customers were left behind; they simply couldn't access IS-54's new features. IS-54 also supported authentication, a help in preventing fraud.

Technology Specifications.
                                      
IS-54 employs the same 30 kHz channel spacing and frequency bands (824-849 and 869-894 MHz) as AMPS. Capacity was increased over the preceding analog design by dividing each 30 kHz channel pair into three time slots and digitally compressing the voice data, yielding three times the call capacity in a single cell. A digital system also made calls more secure because analog scanners could not access digital signals. 

The IS-54 standard specifies 84 control channels, 42 of which are shared with AMPS. To maintain compatibility with the existing AMPS cellular telephone system, the primary forward and reverse control channels in IS-54 cellular systems use the same signaling techniques and modulation scheme (binary FSK) as AMPS. An AMPS/IS-54 infrastructure can support use of either analog AMPS phones or D-AMPS phones.

The access method used for IS-54 is Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), which was the first U.S. digital standard to be developed. It was adopted by the TIA in 1992. TDMA subdivides each of the 30 kHz AMPS channels into 3 full-rate TDMA channels, each of which is capable of supporting a single voice call. Later, each of these full-rate channels was further sub-divided into two half-rate channels, each of which, with the necessary coding and compression, could also support a voice call. Thus, TDMA could provide 3 to 6 times the capacity of AMPS traffic channels. Time Division Multiple Access or TDMA was initially defined by the IS-54 standard and is now specified in the IS-13x series of specifications of the EIA/TIA.

The channel transmission bit rate for digitally modulating the carrier is 48.6 kbit/s. Each frame has six time slots of 6.67-ms duration. Each time slot carries 324 bits of information, of which 260 bits are for the 13-kbit/s full-rate traffic data. The other 64 bits are overhead; 28 of these are for synchronization, and they contain a specific bit sequence known by all receivers to establish frame alignment. Also, as with GSM, the known sequence acts as a training pattern to initialize an adaptive equalizer.

The IS-54 system has different synchronization sequences for each of the six time slots making up the frame, thereby allowing each receiver to synchronize to its own preassigned time slots. An additional 12 bits in every time slot are for the SACCH (i.e., system control information). The digital verification color code (DVCC) is the equivalent of the supervisory audio tone used in the AMPS system. There are 256 different 8-bit color codes, which are protected by a (12, 8, 3) Hamming code. Each base station has its own preassigned color code, so any incoming interfering signals from distant cells can be ignored.

The modulation scheme for IS-54 is 7C/4 differential quaternary phase shift keying (DQPSK), otherwise known as differential 7t/4 4-PSK or  /4 DQPSK. This technique allows a bit rate of 48.6 kbit/s with 30 kHz channel spacing, to give a bandwidth efficiency of 1.62 b/s/Hz. This value is 20% better than GSM. The major disadvantage with this type of linear modulation method is the power inefficiency, which translates into a heavier hand-held portable and, even more inconvenient, a shorter time between battery recharges.

IS-54 security features is also a matter of interest as it was the first standard to specify some security measures. IS-54 uses the CAVE (Cellular Authentication, Voice Privacy and Encryption) algorithm for authentication and the CMEA (Cellular Message Encryption Algorithm) for encryption.

The technical specifications can be summarized as below:


Call Processing.
A conversation's data bits makes up the DATA field. Six slots make up a complete IS-54 frame. DATA in slots 1 and 4, 2 and 5, and 3 and 6 make up a voice circuit. DVCC stands for digital verification color code, arcane terminology for a unique 8-bit code value assigned to each cell. G means guard time, the period between each time slot. RSVD stands for reserved. SYNC represents synchronization, a critical TDMA data field. Each slot in every frame must be synchronized against all others and a master clock for everything to work.

Time slots for the mobile-to-base direction are constructed differently from the base-to-mobile direction. They essentially carry the same information but are arranged differently. Notice that the mobile-to-base direction has a 6-bit ramp time to enable its transmitter time to get up to full power, and a 6-bit guard band during which nothing is transmitted. These 12 extra bits in the base-to-mobile direction are reserved for future use.

Once a call comes in the mobile switches to a different pair of frequencies; a voice radio channel which the system carrier has made analog or digital. This pair carries the call. If an IS-54 signal is detected it gets assigned a digital traffic channel if one is available. The fast associated channel or FACCH performs handoffs during the call, with no need for the mobile to go back to the control channel. In case of high noise FACCH, embedded within the digital traffic channel overrides the voice payload, degrading speech quality to convey control information. The purpose is to maintain connectivity. The slow associated control channel or SACCH does not perform handoffs but conveys things like signal strength information to the base station.

The IS-54 speech coder uses the technique called vector sum excited linear prediction (VSELP) coding. This is a special type of speech coder within a large class known as code-excited linear prediction (CELP) coders. The speech coding rate of 7.95 kbit/s achieves a reconstructed speech quality similar to that of the analog AMPS system using frequency modulation. The 7.95-kbit/s signal is then passed through a channel coder that loads the bit rate up to 13 kbit/s. The new half-rate coding standard reduces the overall bit rate for each call to 6.5 kbit/s, and should provide comparable quality to the 13-kbit/s rate. This half-rate gives a channel capacity six times that of analog AMPS.

System Example.

The discussion of a communication system won t be complete without the explanation of a system example. A dual-mode cellular phone as specified by the IS-54 standard is explained. A dual-mode phone is capable of operating in an analog-only cell or a dual-mode cell. Both the transmitter and the receiver support both analog FM and digital time division multiple access (TDMA) schemes. Digital transmission is preferred, so when a cellular system has digital capability, the mobile unit is assigned a digital channel first. If no digital channels are available, the cellular system will assign an analog channel. The transmitter converts the audio signal to a radio frequency (RF), and the receiver converts an RF signal to an audio signal. The antenna focuses and converts RF energy for reception and transmission into free space. The control panel serves as an input/output mechanism for the end user; it supports a keypad, a display, a microphone, and a speaker. The coordinator synchronizes the transmission and receives functions of the mobile unit.
A dual-mode cellular phone consists of the following:
Transmitter ;
Antenna assembly;
Receiver;
Control panel ;
Coordinator;

Successor Technologies.
By 1993 American cellular was again running out of capacity, despite a wide movement to IS-54. The American cellular business continued booming. Subscribers grew from one and a half million customers in 1988 to more than thirteen million subscribers in 1993. Room existed for other technologies to cater to the growing market. The technologies that followed IS-54 stuck to the digital backbone laid down by it.

IS-136.
A pragmatic effort was launched to improve IS-54 that eventually added an extra channel to the IS-54 hybrid design. Unlike IS-54, IS-136 utilizes time division multiplexing for both voice and control channel transmissions. Digital control channel allows residential and in-building coverage, dramatically increased battery standby time, several messaging applications, over the air activation and expanded data applications. IS-136 systems needed to support millions of AMPS phones, most of which were designed and manufactured before IS-54 and IS-136 were considered. IS-136 added a number of features to the original IS-54 specification, including text messaging, circuit switched data (CSD), and an improved compression protocol. IS-136 TDMA traffic channels use  /4-DQPSK modulation at a 24.3-kbaud channel rate and gives an effective 48.6 kbit/s data rate across the six time slots comprising one frame in the 30 kHz channel.

References.
 History of mobile communication:1990's;

 Paper on CMEA;

External links.
 Timeslot structure for IS-136 and IS-54;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3480613" title="Lechmere" nonfiltered="365" processed="363" dbindex="450367">



Lechmere (pronounced "leech-meer", sometimes described as Lechmere's) was a retail store chain in New England, which closed in 1997. 

History.
Lechmere primarily focused on sales of electronics and appliances, including home goods and exercise equipment.

The original Lechmere Harness Shop in Lechmere Square (the store was named after the square) was bought by Abraham Cohen in 1913, who converted it into a tire store. Appliances were added in 1948. The second store opened in Dedham, Massachusetts in 1965, and Lechmere became a chain.

Sale To Dayton Hudson.
In 1968, the Cohen family sold the stores to Dayton Hudson Corp. (who later changed their name to Target Corporation in 2000).

Lechmere languished under Dayton Hudson's corporate guidance until 1980, when C. George Scala was named CEO.  Scala revamped the stores offerings, from an at times arcane and exotic selection of goods (from tires to snake meat), to a core grouping which included houseware, appliances, sporting goods, electronics, and music.  Lechmere offered a wide and deep selection of these products.  The stores carried telephones for example, ranging from the inexpensive to the top of the line, but also, offered customers choices in every price range.  

Lechmere was almost a "Mall" within a Mall, with its home electronics department able to compete product for product with Tweeter, its houseware department offering as much, if not more, than Lechter's (a retailer who has since closed its doors), its footwear department could compete with Foot Locker, and its music department was as large and varied as Recordtown's (another retailing ghost).

"Our customers don't want cheap steak, they want steak cheap!" was a familiar saying.  While Lechmere did not offer "rock bottom" pricing, it did offer competitive pricing, a no hassle return policy, very knowledgable sales associates, colorful and informative signing in store, as well as its famous Lechmere Sunday circular.  The stores were large, clean, bright, and uncluttered.  

This was to be the heyday of the company, which also saw an increase in retailing excellence with the addition of Frank G. Fellicella as Executive Vice President of Stores, who would later become CEO of a large home improvement company.

Split From Dayton Hudson.
In 1989, the company's management, with the help of a local investment firm, Berkshire Partners, and the Boston-based Mall developers Steve Karp and Steve Wiener, bought the chain from Dayton Hudson's.  The sale was the second largest leveraged buyout of the year.  Lechmere's 29 stores fetched only book value of $234 million, much less than early estimates of $350 million.  

A result of the sale was the closing of the southeast region, and the stores located there.  The cost of running essentially two companies (one in New England, and one in the deep southeast) was too costly for the now privately owned venture.

Then, in the early 1990s, C. George Scala retired and was replaced by J. Kent Flemmerfelt, a veteran Sears merchant. Things started to turn sour--with several rounds of layoffs.

Montgomery Ward.
In March 1994 Berkshire Partners sold Lechmere to Montgomery Ward Holdings in a more than $200 million deal. Berkshire acquired the business in 1989 and according to Berkshire Partner Richard Lubin, the firm initially wanted to take the business public. 

He said at the time, "As we learned about the Montgomery Ward strategy, we realized this was a buyer that could make a very attractive offer, an offer that we thought was above what we viewed our IPO offering would have been." In 1993, Lechmere had sales of more than $800 million, through 24 stores in the New England area. 

At the time of purchase, Lechmere had 28 stores and grew to 33 with the introduction of HomeImage by Lechmere stores that opened in August of 1996.

However, it wasn't long after that the business press was calling Montgomery Ward's purchase of Lechmere a disaster, and less than five years after the acquisition, the company was forced to liquidate Lechmere's assets. In 2000, Montgomery Ward itself was forced into bankruptcy protection amid competition from the likes of Wal-Mart and Target, and the company eventually shuttered its stores and closed after 128 years in business.

Closure.
On August 1, 1997, Montgomery Ward announced that all Lechmere stores were to be closed as part of their bankruptcy reorganization. At the time of the chain's closing, 27 stores remained open, including 20 in New England, 12 of which were in Massachusetts. All six HomeImage by Lechmere were also closed at that time.

November 8, 1997 was the last day of business for all locations.




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2813670" title="Tom O'Dell" nonfiltered="366" processed="364" dbindex="450368">

Thomas (Tom) O'Dell is the host of a satellite television shopping show, sometimes referred to as a network, dedicated to selling fine cutlery and assorted medieval bladed weaponry. 'Cutlery Corner Network', sometimes referred to as Knife Show is featured on cable on Dish Network, DirecTV (Channel 227) and i in the United States. However, due to contract variations, the timeslot in which Cutlery Corner has previously aired on it has been replaced with old movies.

Though he is not directly involved with the show, Tom is also a co-host of Coin Country, a similar type of show selling coins. Before these two shows, he worked on various knife shows, such as the Knife Collectors Show along with Shawn Leflar on the Shop at Home network.

On Cutlery Corner, Tom is assisted on the show by one of two additional hosts, Sheila Travis or Todd Boone (who also works on Shop at Home), demonstrating swords, katanas, bowies and many decorative knives. Tom is famous for being highly enthusiastic about his work. Many people tune into his late-night infomercials to simply be entertained by him.

One of O'Dell's famous terms is "Biggens" (or Bigguns) used to describe the large knives and swords that he sells.

O'Dell is also known for saying "We, uh, may need emergency surgery in the studio" on a famous online clip in which a former assistant of his, Shawn Leflar, stabs himself with a practice katana.  This clip has been featured on VH1's Web Junk 20. Clips have also been featured from broadcasts of Cutlery Corner on Jimmy Kimmel Live. On January 4, 2007, O'Dell was a guest on Kimmel's show, showing off some of his knives and sharing his experiences.





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4722685" title="Jordan Black" nonfiltered="368" processed="365" dbindex="450370">
Brian Jordan Black (born January 28, 1980 in Rowlett, Texas) is an American football player who currently plays tackle for the Kansas City Chiefs.   He played in 43 games for the University of Notre Dame, starting 42 of those contests.  Black was drafted in the 2003 NFL Draft by Kansas City.

Black attended Dallas Christian School in Mesquite, TX from 1985-1998. Where he won multiple Texas State championships.

http://www.kcchiefs.com/media/players/jordan_black.jpg







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2208838" title="Liga Nacional de B\E1squetbol" nonfiltered="369" processed="366" dbindex="450371">
The Liga Nacional de B\E1squetbol (LNB) it's the Argentine National Basketball League, and controlled by the Asociaci\F3n de Clubes de B\E1squetbol (Association of Basketball Clubs).

The league was created through the efforts of coach Le\F3n Najnudel in the 80s to make Argentine basketball more competitive through the merging of the many existing local leagues.

Its designed like NBA with regular season, all-star game, and Playoffs.

A tribute to Najnudel's vision is the string of successes of the Argentine national basketball team, culminating with the Olympic gold in Athens 2004, and the international careers of many players who started in the league.

Champions.
2005/06 Gimnasia y Esgrima (Comodoro Rivadavia) runner up:  Libertad (Sunchales);
2004/05 Ben Hur (Rafaela) runner up: Boca Juniors (Buenos Aires);
2003/04 Boca Juniors (Buenos Aires) runner up: Gimnasia y Esgrima (La Plata);
2002/03 Atenas (C\F3rdoba) runner up: Boca Juniors (Buenos Aires);
2001/02 Atenas (C\F3rdoba) runner up: Estudiantes (Olavarr\EDa);
2000/01 Estudiantes (Olavarr\EDa) runner up: Libertad (Sunchales);
1999/00 Estudiantes (Olavarr\EDa) runner up: Atenas (C\F3rdoba);
1998/99 Atenas (C\F3rdoba) runner up: Independiente (General Pico);
1997/98 Atenas (C\F3rdoba) runner up: Boca Juniors (Buenos Aires);
1996/97 Boca Juniors (Buenos Aires) runner up: Independiente (General Pico);
1995/96 Olimpia (Venado Tuerto) runner up: Atenas (C\F3rdoba);
1994/95 Independiente (General Pico) runner up: Olimpia (Bah\EDa Blanca);
1993/94 Pe\F1arol (Mar del Plata) runner up: Independiente (General Pico);
1992/93 Gimnasia y Esgrima Pedernera Unido (San Luis) runner up: Atenas (C\F3rdoba);
1991/92 Atenas (C\F3rdoba) runner up: Gimnasia y Esgrima Pedernera Unido (San Luis);
1990/91 Gimnasia y Esgrima Pedernera Unido (San Luis) runner up: Estudiantes (Bah\EDa Blanca);
1990 Atenas (C\F3rdoba) runner up: Sport Club (Ca\F1ada de G\F3mez);
1989	Ferro Carril Oeste (Buenos Aires) runner up: Atenas (C\F3rdoba);
1988 Atenas (C\F3rdoba) runner up: River Plate (Buenos Aires);
1987 Atenas (C\F3rdoba) runner up: Ferro Carril Oeste (Buenos Aires);
1986	Ferro Carril Oeste (Buenos Aires) runner up: Olimpo (Bah\EDa Blanca);
1985	Ferro Carril Oeste (Buenos Aires) runner up: Atenas (C\F3rdoba);

 Teams of the 2006/2007 season .

Northern Zone.
Atenas (C\F3rdoba);
Belgrano de San Nicol\E1s;
Ben Hur (Rafaela);
Central Entrerriano (Gualeguaych\FA);
Libertad Sunchales (Sunchales);
Quimsa (Santiago del Estero);
Regatas (Corrientes);
Juventud Sionista (Paran\E1);

Southern Zone.
Boca Juniors (Buenos Aires);
Ciclista Juninense (Jun\EDn);
Deportivo Puerto Madryn (Puerto Madryn);
Estudiantes de Bah\EDa Blanca;
Estudiantes de Olavarr\EDa;
Gimnasia Esgrima de Comodoro Rivadavia;
Obras Sanitarias (Buenos Aires);
Pe\F1arol (Mar del Plata);
Quilmes (Mar del Plata);

1 Relgated to Second Division or "Torneo Nacional de Ascenso" (TNA).
La Uni\F3n (Formosa) won the 2005 TNA and will, together with Ciclista (Jun\EDn), play in the 2005/2006 season in the LNB.



 Distinguished players .
Marcelo Milanesio (Atenas);
Oscar Pichi Campana (Atenas);
Luis Osela (Atenas);
Andres Nocioni (Independiente);
Fabricio Oberto (Atenas);
Emanuel Gin\F3bili (Andino de La Rioja, Estudiantes de Bah\EDa Blanca);

See also.
Argentine Basketball Federation;
;

External links.
  Asociaci\F3n de Clubes de B\E1squetbol;
Argentine Basketball;
  LNB History;
Argentina leagues;
Argentine Basketball;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5754796" title="Central Kitsap Junior High" nonfiltered="370" processed="367" dbindex="450372">
 
Central Kitsap Junior High is one of the few remaining junior highs in Washington. It's part of the Central Kitsap School District of Kitsap County. It is located in Silverdale, Washington near Central Kitsap High School.

Demographics.
In the 2003-04 school year the demographics were: Asian/Pacific Islander 7%, African-American 3%, Hispanic 3%, Native American 1%, multiethnic 5%, and Caucasian 81%.

Standardized Testing.
 ITED .
In the 2003-04 school year the 9th grade scores on the Iowa Test of Educational Development dropped from the previous school year.

 WASL .
The 7th grade WASL scores increased in reading from 53% to 67% in the 2003-04 school year; math from 50% to 57%; but decreased in writing from 58% to 56%.

 2006 Shooting Plot .
On March 16, 2006, a 14-year-old boy was accidentally shot in the abdomen by his friend, also 14, using a 9mm handgun at the shooters's house. The injured 14 year old was moved to the Mary Bridge Children's Hospital in Tacoma, in stable condition.

At first the injury was believed to be accidental, but the shooter's parents gave information that prompted interest. Investigations revealed that the uninjured 14 year old was the leader of the plot, which included shootings and the use of explosives. Multiple bomb threaths had been made the previous school year. Two thirteen year olds  a boy and a girl  had also been at the house earlier that day and were also involved in the plot. The shooter was expelled, and the thirteen year olds suspended. The shooter was charged with third-degree assault and unlawful possession of a firearm.

References.
 http://www1.kitsapsun.com/bsun/local/article/0,2403,BSUN_19088_4579039,00.html;
 http://www.komo4.com/stories/42599.htm;
Government's media release on bomb threats;

Links.
CKSD School Page;
School website;
ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1702382" title="M-24 (Michigan highway)" nonfiltered="371" processed="368" dbindex="450373">


M-24, (also known as Lapeer Rd for a portion of the route) is a highway that extends 74.3 miles (119 km) through southeastern Michigan, from Auburn Hills (at an interchange with I-75) to Unionville (where it merges with M-25.  While the M-24 designation is similar to that of US 24 which has a northern terminus located only a few miles from the southern terminus of M-24, M-24 was never part of US 24. 

Route.
The section of M-24 from its southern terminus in Auburn Hills north to the village of Oxford is one of the busiest stretches of road in the state in terms of vehicle traffic per number of lanes.  The road is a standard Michigan expressway design, with at-grade intersections, traffic signals, and Michigan Lefts.  This continues a few miles north of Oxford, where the highway becomes a two-lane highway (as of 2006 construction projects are under way to widen the road to Lapeer.) 

Heading north, M-24 passes through Lake Orion, Oxford, Metamora and Lapeer. Very close to its southern terminus is the Palace of Auburn Hills, home of the NBA's Detroit Pistons. 

Prior to an early 2000's extension, M-24 ended at M-81 in Caro, MI; now it continues up to M-25 in Unionville.

Interstate junctions.
M-24 begins a hundred feet south of an overpass that is part of a double trumpet interchange with I-75 in Auburn Hills.  The interchange also connects with an entrance into the Palace of Auburn Hills and a variety of electronic signs are contained in the area to indicate the status of access to the entrance.  The roadway is a continuation of BL I-75 that travels through Pontiac.

M-24 also intersects I-69 on the south side of Lapeer.

External links.
M-24 at Michigan Highways;
M-24 Endpoint Photos;

References.



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4167049" title="Pawe? Holsza?ski" nonfiltered="372" processed="369" dbindex="450374">
Pawe  Holsza ski (ca. 1485-1555 in Vilnius ) was a notable Catholic church official and the last male successor of the, once mighty, Olshanski princely family of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. 

Born to an Orthodox Prince Aleksander Holsza ski, the castellan of Vilnius and Zofia Sudymuntowicz\F3wna, between 1507 and 1536 he served as a bishop of uck (modern Lutsk, Ukraine) and then between March 15, 1536 and his death a bishop of Vilnius. 

During his term, Holsza ski erected several dozens of new parochs in the Polish-Lithuanian borderland. He was also responsible for convincing the king to expel  Stanislovas Rapalionis and Abraomas Kulvietis, two of the pioneers of Lutheranism in Lithuania. He died in Vilnius on September 4, 1555. 
Notes and references.


In-line:;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3404879" title="St. Felix's Flood" nonfiltered="373" processed="370" dbindex="450375">

The St. Felix's Flood (in Dutch Sint-Felixvloed) happened on Saturday 5 November 1530, the name day of St. Felix. This day was later known as Evil Saturday. Large parts of Flanders and Zeeland were washed away, including the Verdronken Land van Reimerswaal.

See also.
Floods in the Netherlands;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4427883" title="Verzasca Dam" nonfiltered="374" processed="371" dbindex="450376">

Verzasca dam is a 220-meter high dam in Switzerland.  Its construction took from 1960 to 1965.

Verzasca Dam forms Lago di Vogorno, an artificial reservoir.

The bungee jump scene at the beginning of the 1995 James Bond film GoldenEye was filmed at Verzasca Dam.

External links.
  - The Dam at Google Maps;








ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="45188" title="Paul Muni" nonfiltered="375" processed="372" dbindex="450377">
For the comedy writer and actor, see Paul Mooney.;


Paul Muni (MYOO-nee) (September 22, 1895   August 25, 1967) was an Academy Award-winning and Tony Award-winning versatile actor from the Golden Age of Hollywood.

Early life and career.
He was born Meshilem Meier Weisenfreund to a Jewish family in Lviv, Galicja, an ethnically Polish part of the then-Austro-Hungarian Empire, which became Lvov, Ukraine (known as Lviv since the 1990s). 

His family emigrated to the United States in 1902. Both of Muni's parents were actors with the Yiddish theater, so it was only natural that he would join them on stage. He made his stage debut at age twelve. In a stage quirk, Muni played an 80-year-old man as his first role. It was an appropriate beginning for an actor who loved wearing elaborate costumes and assuming accents in his film career. During his time in Yiddish theater, he was known as Moony Weisenfreund. He was quickly recognized by Maurice Schwartz, who signed him up with his Yiddish Art Theater. Edward G. Robinson and Paul Muni were cousins to Charles M Fritz who was a notable actor and manager of The Little Red
Theater in Northport, Long Island, New York during the depression.

A 1925 New York Times article singled out his and Sam Kasten's performances at the People's Theater as among the highlights of that year's Yiddish theater season, describing them as second only to Ludwig Satz.

Broadway and Hollywood.
Muni was 29 when he began acting on Broadway in 1924. His first role, that of an elderly Jewish man in the play We Americans, was written by playwright Sam Harris; it was also the first time that he ever acted in English. 

He was signed by Fox three years later, in 1929, and received an Oscar nomination for his first film The Valiant. However, he was unhappy with the roles and decided to return to Broadway. 

In 1932, Paul Muni returned to Hollywood to star in such harrowing pre-Code films as Scarface and I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang. He received a second Academy Award for Best Actor nomination for the latter film. Warner Brothers recognized his considerable talent and signed a long-term contract with him. 

He went on to receive a Best Actor Academy Award nomination for The Life of Emile Zola (1937) and to win the Academy Award for The Story of Louis Pasteur (1936).

In the ensuing years until his retirement in 1959, he spent his time acting on film and stage. He was widely recognized as a talented if eccentric individual. He would go into a rage whenever anyone wore red, but at the same time he could often be found between sessions relaxing with his violin. Over the years, he also became increasingly dependent on his wife, Bella, who terrified directors by forcing them to redo scenes that did not meet her satisfaction. 

After several failed projects, Muni was nominated for a Tony Award in 1955 for the role of Henry Drummond in the play Inherit the Wind.

He was becoming increasingly infirm, however, and soon after receiving his final Academy Award nomination for The Last Angry Man (1959), he retired from acting. 

Muni died in Montecito, California at aged 71, survived by his wife.

Partial filmography.
 The Valiant (1929);
 Seven Faces (1929);
 Scarface (1932);
 I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang (1932);
 Dr. Socrates (1935);
 The Story of Louis Pasteur (1936);
 The Life of Emile Zola (1937);
 The Good Earth (1937);
 Juarez (1939);
 Hudson's Bay (1940);
 A Song to Remember (1945);
 Counter Attack (1945);
 Angel on My Shoulder (1946);
 The Last Angry Man (1959);

Academy Awards and nominations.
1960 Nominated The Last Angry Man;
1938 Nominated The Life of Emile Zola;
1937 Won The Story of Louis Pasteur;
1934 Nominated I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang;
1930 Nominated The Valiant;

He has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6435 Hollywood Blvd.

References.
 Melamed, S.M., "The Yiddish Stage", The New York Times, Sept. 27, 1925 (X2);
 Adler, Jacob, A Life on the Stage: A Memoir, translated and with commentary by Lulla Rosenfeld, Knopf, New York, 1999, ISBN 0-679-41351-0. In a comment on p. 377, Rosenfeld mentions "Muni Weisenfreund, now Paul Muni".

External links.
;
;
;


























ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="481796" title="Steve Stephens" nonfiltered="376" processed="373" dbindex="450378">


Steve Stephens was an American television host in the late 1950s and 1960s as well as a musician.

Steve Stephens was born in Newport, Arkansas and hosted several local television programs during the late 1950s and early 1960s which helped start the careers of several notable entertainers such as Johnny Cash, Conway Twitty, Charlie Rich, Brenda Lee, Fabian, and Carl Perkins.

Stephens most notable show was "Steve's Show" which was broadcast on Little Rock, Arkansas station KTHV and had a dance party format. Stephens also recorded several of his own songs including "Honey Bee," "Pizza Pete," and "How It Used to Be."

Adapted from the article Steve Stephens, from Wikinfo, licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8769562" title="Seronegative spondarthritis" nonfiltered="377" processed="374" dbindex="450379">
Seronegative spondarthritis is a group of diseases, including:

 psoriatic arthritis;
 Reiter's disease;
 arthritis in association with inflammatory bowel disease;
 ankylosing spondylitis;
 Behcet's syndrome;
 Whipple's disease;

These diseases has following conditions in common:
 They are in relation to HLA-B27;
 sacroiliitis and spondylitis are present in them.
 familial aggregation occurs;
 Overlap is likely in them;
 rheumatoid factor is not present;

references.
http://www.gpnotebook.co.uk/cache/-254803955.htm;

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2622544" title="WPYR (AM)" nonfiltered="378" processed="375" dbindex="450380">
WPYR is a Progressive Talk outlet licensed to Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The Clear Channel Communications station broadcasts at 1380 kHz with an ERP of 5 kW power.

History.
WPYR was originally WYNK, a Country music outlet until its format was moved to the FM side. In the 1990s it switched to Radio Disney, followed by a syndicated talk format in 2002. In 2005, thanks in part to a successful petition, it became the newest member of Air America Radio.

External links.
Talk Radio 1380's website;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="35281" title="66" nonfiltered="379" processed="376" dbindex="450381">





Events.
By place.
Roman Empire.
 September 22 - Emperor Nero creates the legion I Italica;
Jewish revolt against the Roman Empire. The Zealots take Jerusalem and the Sicarii capture the fortress of Masada.
 Cestius Gallus, legate of Syria, attempts to put down the Jewish rebellion.
 Roman legion II Augusta is stationed at Gloucester.
Suetonius Paullinus becomes a Roman Consul.

Asia.
Baekje invades Silla in Korean peninsula and captured Castle Ugok.

By topic.
Religion.
The First Epistle to Timothy is written (approximate date).

Arts and Science.
Dioscorides writes his De Materia Medica, a treatise on the methodical treatment of disease by use of medicine.

Astronomy.
 Halley's Comet was visible;

Births.
;

Deaths.
Petronius, Roman writer.



































































ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="20059" title="Multiplicative function" nonfiltered="380" processed="377" dbindex="450382">
In number theory, a multiplicative function is an arithmetic function f(n) of the positive integer n with the property that f(1) = 1 and whenever
a and b are coprime, then
f(ab) = f(a) f(b).

An arithmetic function f(n) is said to be completely (totally) multiplicative if f(1) = 1 and f(ab) = f(a) f(b) holds for all positive integers a and b, even when they are not coprime. 

Outside number theory, the term multiplicative is usually used for functions with the property f(ab) = f(a) f(b) for all arguments a and b; this requires either f(1) = 1,  or f(a) = 0 for all a except a = 1.  This article discusses number theoretic multiplicative functions.

 Examples .

Examples of multiplicative functions include many functions of importance in number theory, such as: 
 (n): Euler's totient function , counting the positive integers coprime to (but not bigger than) n ;
 (n): the M\F6bius function, related to the number of prime factors of square-free numbers;
 gcd(n,k): the greatest common divisor of n and k, where k is a fixed integer.
 d(n): the number of positive divisors of n, ;
 (n): the sum of all the positive divisors of n,
 k(n): the divisor function, which is the sum of the k-th powers of all the positive divisors of n (where k may be any complex number). In special cases we have;
 0(n) = d(n) and;
 1(n) = (n),
 1(n): the constant function, defined by 1(n) = 1 (completely multiplicative);
  the indicator function of the set  of squares (or cubes, or fourth powers, etc.);
 Id(n): identity function, defined by Id(n) = n (completely multiplicative);
 Idk(n): the power functions, defined by Idk(n) = nk for any natural (or even complex) number k (completely multiplicative). As special cases we have;
 Id0(n) = 1(n) and;
 Id1(n) = Id(n),
 (n): the function defined by (n) = 1 if n = 1 and = 0 if n > 1, sometimes called multiplication unit for Dirichlet convolution or simply the unit function; sometimes written as u(n), not to be confused with (n) (completely multiplicative).
 (n/p), the Legendre symbol, where p is a fixed prime number (completely multiplicative).
 (n): the Liouville function, related to the number of prime factors dividing n (completely multiplicative).
 (n), defined by (n)=(-1)(n), where the additive function (n) is the number of distinct primes dividing n.
 All Dirichlet characters are completely multiplicative functions.

An example of a non-multiplicative function is the arithmetic function r2(n) - the number of representations of n as a sum of squares of two integers, positive, negative, or zero, where in counting the number of ways, reversal of order is allowed. For example:

1 = 12 + 02 = (-1)2 + 02 = 02 + 12 = 02 + (-1)2;

and therefore r2(1) = 4   1. This shows that the function is not multiplicative. However, r2(n)/4 is multiplicative.

In the On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences, sequences of values of a multiplicative function have the keyword "mult".

See arithmetic function for some other examples of non-multiplicative functions.

 Properties .

A multiplicative function is completely determined by its values at the powers of prime numbers, a consequence of the fundamental theorem of arithmetic. Thus, if n is a product of powers of distinct primes, say n = pa qb ..., then 
f(n) = f(pa) f(qb) ...

This property of multiplicative functions significantly reduces the need for computation, as in the following examples for n = 144 = 24 \B7 32:
 d(144) = 0(144) = 0(24)0(32) = (10 + 20 + 40 + 80 + 160)(10 + 30 + 90) = 5 \B7 3 = 15,
 (144) = 1(144) = 1(24)1(32) = (11 + 21 + 41 + 81 + 161)(11 + 31 + 91) = 31 \B7 13 = 403,
 *(144) = *(24)*(32) = (11 + 161)(11 + 91) = 17 \B7 10 = 170.

Similarly, we have:

(144)=(24)(32) = 8 \B7 6 = 48;

In general, if f(n) is a multiplicative function and a, b are any two positive integers, then
f(a) \B7 f(b) = f(gcd(a,b)) \B7 f(lcm(a,b)).

Every completely multiplicative function is a homomorphism of monoids and is completely determined by its restriction to the prime numbers.

 Convolution .

If f and g are two multiplicative functions, one defines a new multiplicative function f * g, the Dirichlet convolution of f and g, by
;
where the sum extends over all positive divisors d of n. 
With this operation, the set of all multiplicative functions turns into an abelian group; the identity element is .

Relations among the multiplicative functions discussed above include:

  * 1 =  (the M\F6bius inversion formula);
 ( Idk) * Idk =  (generalized M\F6bius inversion);
  * 1 = Id;
 d = 1 * 1;
  = Id * 1 =  * d;
 k = Idk * 1 ;
 Id =  * 1 =  * ;
 Idk = k * ;

The Dirichlet convolution can be defined for general arithmetic functions, and yields a ring structure, the Dirichlet ring.

 Proving convolution identities .

There is a very useful theorem for proving convolution identities, which says that if f, g and h are multiplicative, and one wants to prove that
;
then it suffices to prove it for powers of primes.

The proof of this theorem is by mathematical induction on the number of distinct prime factors of n. The base case of the induction is that n has just one prime factor, in which case
;
because we assumed that it holds for powers of primes.

For the induction step, let


Start with
;
and split the set of divisors of n into those that are coprime to p, and those that are not:

Using the fact that f and g are multiplicative, this becomes


Now  has one fewer prime factor than , 
so by the induction hypothesis, we have
,
which yields
;
or
;
because we assumed the convolution holds for powers of primes, and by multiplicativity of h. QED.

We may now prove some convolution identities of multiplicative functions by verifying that they hold for powers of primes.

First example: Moebius inversion.

We have
;
This certainly holds for powers  of primes, where the left evaluates to
;
This proves the Moebius inversion formula, through
;

Second example: the classic totient identity.

We show that
;
The left is


Third example: the square of the divisor function.

We show that
;
where  is the indicator function of the set of naturals that are squares.

The right is


The left is


Now there are two cases, depending on whether v is even or odd.
Let  where . This gives
;
Next let  where . This in turn gives
;

Fourth example: an exotic identity.

Here we show that
;

The left is


Once more there are two cases. Let  where .
We obtain
;
Furthermore, when  where  we find
;

See also. 
 Euler product;
 Bell series;
 Lambert series;

References.
 Tom M.Apostol, Introduction to Analytic Number Theory, (1976) Springer-Verlag, New York.  ISBN 0-387-90163-9 (See Chapter 2.);












ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1515958" title="Huamantla" nonfiltered="381" processed="378" dbindex="450383">
Huamantla is  a city and its surrounding municipality in the Mexican 
state of Tlaxcala. It is the second most important city in the state, after the capital Tlaxcala, Tlaxcala. 

Location.

Huamantla stands at , at a mean height of 2500 metres above sea level. 
It is located in the eastern portion of the state, on the northeastern flanks of the dormant Matlalcueitl volcano,40 km northeast of the city of Puebla, Puebla (as the crow flies over the mountain) or 30 km east of Apizaco, Tlaxcala (along Mexican Federal Highway 136).

History.
1847   Battle of Huamantla, during the U.S. invasion of Mexico.

Culture.

Huamantla is a major centre for the raising of livestock for bullfighting. The city is also home to the National Puppet Museum, and a major international puppetry festival is held there every August. The local annual Easter celebrations are also among the most colourful in the country, with traditional sawdust works of art laid down across many of the town's streets prior to the passage of the lively processions. 

External links.
Photo gallery of sawdust art in the streets of Huamantla (El Universal);





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7794068" title="Colvin Center" nonfiltered="382" processed="379" dbindex="450384">

The Colvin Center is a student recreation center at Oklahoma State University in Stillwater, Oklahoma. The state-of-the-art center offers 240,000 square feet of recreational space. The Colvin Center is a popular destination for many OSU students, thanks to the wide array of sports and physical activities available at the facility and serves an average of 4,000 students a day. Admission to the Colvin Center is free to Oklahoma State students, although every OSU student pays a small fee along with their tuition towards maintenance of the center.

The Colvin Center was originally completed on March 1, 1969, at a cost of almost $3 million. In 1999, student government representatives had become concerned that the aging Colvin Center was becoming increasingly outdated and incapable of meeting the needs of a much larger student body. This movement would later give way to a massive two-year, $23 million renovation and expansion project that was completed in July 2004. The project gave the Colvin Center approximately 180,000 square feet of completely new or renovated area, including five new gyms (bringing the total number to eleven) and a golf center with three driving-range practice nets, a practice putting green and two golf simulators. Other amenities include an indoor pool and outdoor pool, dance studios, 35-foot climbing wall, indoor jogging tracks, racquetball courts, and cardio and fitness equipment. The weight and fitness-training areas alone have more than tripled in size from 9,000 to more than 30,000 square feet with $600,000 of new equipment.

In 2005, the Colvin Center was named as one of the top six collegiate sports centers in the United States by the National Intramural and Recreational Sports Association.

External Links.
The Colvin Center Grand Opening;
OSU s Colvin Center Named One of Six Top Centers in Nation;
OSU Campus Recreation Homepage;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2654488" title="65daysofstatic" nonfiltered="383" processed="380" dbindex="450385">


65daysofstatic (also known by the abbreviations 65dos, 65days, or simply 65) are an instrumental math rock and post-rock band from Sheffield, England. Their debut album, The Fall of Math, was released to critical acclaim and they have released a second album, One Time For All Time, which has been well received.

The band intersperses heavy, progressive, guitar-driven instrumental sections with live drums and off-beat sampled drums akin to those of Aphex Twin. Their albums, as a result, maintain a distinctively gritty, almost industrial feel.

History.
The band was originally formed in 2001 as a three-piece, consisting of Joe Shrewsbury, Paul Wolinski, and Iain Armstrong. One of the several stories the band has told as to the origin of their name is that they formed to provide the soundtrack for the unreleased and little known John Carpenter film Stealth Bomber starring Kurt Russell. The film was set over '65 Days of Static' a period of time after some unknown global breakdown in communications and infrastructure, from which the band supposedly took their name. 

The lineup of the band has changed significantly since its initial formation. Armstrong left in May 2003, and later went on to form a new band, Actionier. Feedle joined for a brief period and played a part in writing the band's first single from The Fall of Math, "Retreat! Retreat!". By the end of 2003 Rob Jones (drums) and Gareth Hughes (bass) had been recruited, increasing the band to four members. Gareth left around the time of the release of their debut album The Fall of Math, and is currently in the band Saving:Mitsuko. Simon Wright took over on bass duties.

In 2005 they remixed Alkaline Trio's single "Burn" from the album Crimson. The track appears on one 7" vinyl out of a set of 2. In the same year, the band also remixed "...Spooks the Horse," a track by Youthmovie Soundtrack Strategies, for inclusion on the reissue of their debut album, Hurrah! Another Year, Surely This One Will Be Better Than The Last; The Inexorable March Of Progress Will Lead Us All To Happiness.

65daysofstatic are currently working on their as yet untitled third album, which will be released on 30th April 2007. A single will be released three weeks before this on 9th April .

Live.
The band have repeatedly stated that they love playing live. Towards the end of 2005, in a mailout to subscribers of their newsletter, they said that they were "a little disappointed" to have only played 91 shows in that year . They have received critical acclaim from independent music websites, such as Drowned in Sound, for their live shows .

In 2006, they played to their biggest crowd yet at that year's Summer Sonic festival in Japan, alongside such bands as Metallica, Lostprophets, Linkin Park and Deftones. 2006 also saw their first European tour, playing in Belgium, Holland, Germany, Italy and France.

Discography.
Albums.
The Fall of Math (September 2004);
One Time For All Time (October 2005);

Singles and EPs.
Stumble.Stop.Repeat. (EP) (December 2003);
Retreat! Retreat! (November 2004);
Hole (EP) (March 2005);
Radio Protector (February 2006);

Unreleased/Unreleasable.
Volume 1: 65's.late.nite.double-a-side.college.cut-up.trailers.for.the.looped.future. (May 2003);
Volume 2: How I Fucked Off All My Friends (March 2005);
Volume 3: The Kids Have Eyes (DVD) (October 2005);

B-sides and Rarities.
Volume 1: Then We Take Japan (CD + DVD) (November 2006) (Released in Japan only);

External links.
Latest 65daysofstatic tour news;
65daysofstatic's Official Website;
Monotreme Records profile;
;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7352735" title="Bug-out vehicle" nonfiltered="384" processed="381" dbindex="450386">
A bug-out vehicle (BOV) is a vehicle that the owner keeps prepared in the event of the need for an emergency evacuation.  Typically a BOV is equipped with a variation on the bug-out bag that includes additional automotive supplies, clothing, food and water.  Survivalists tend to favor four wheel drive trucks and SUVs.  Evacuations in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita stimulated interest in the use of hybrid cars and dual-sport or on/off road touring motorcycles as BOVs due to the massive traffic jams and fuel shortages.

See also.
 Bug-out bag;
 Survivalist;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4667855" title="El\EDas Malpartida" nonfiltered="385" processed="382" dbindex="450387">
El\EDas Malpartida (18??-19??) was a Peruvian politician in the early 20th century. He was the mayor of Lima from 1914 to 1915.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="8630960" title="Belitsoft" nonfiltered="386" processed="383" dbindex="450388">
 Company Profile .


Belitsoft is an IT outsourcing and software development company established in February, 2003. The Headquarters and the main development center are located in Eastern Europe (Minsk, Belarus, GMT +2:00). The company has over 20 IT specialists in staff (December 2006). Belitsoft Inc working with the clients from Canada, Denmark, Spain, Germany, the UK and the USA.

Belitsoft focuses on providing custom software development, IT outsourcing and software support services for small, medium sized and large corporations all over the world.

The core area of specializations are Joomla (document and content management system), payment and billing systems,
e-commerce and elearning solutions. The solutions are based on .NET, PHP, Ajax, Flash, Action Script,C++, ASM, MySQL, MSSQL and other up-to-date technologies.


 Solutions .
Elearningforce.dk                   Elearning solutions, Joomla components

Joomlalms.com                           Joomla Learning Management System (LMS) 

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="4895218" title="Diboko" nonfiltered="387" processed="384" dbindex="450389">
 


Diboko means clan names in Southern Africa. 
Description.
In the Southern African Sesotho speaking groups' (Sesotho, Setswana, and Sepedi) traditions, the different tribes identify themselves with certain clans. The groups believe in the existence of the "Invisible One". Ad legend has it, they came out of a marsh called "Nswanatsatsi" which means "the place from where the sun emerges". It was from that marsh that each clan was assigned a totem. Each totem is symbolized by an animal, one that is dignified. Following is a list of several clans and their totems.

Clan name from totem.

(cf. Matsela and Moletsane 1993:7):

 Bakwena             -               Kwena (crocodile);

 Bafokeng            -               Phoka (dew), morara (wild vine), mmutla (rabbit);

 Batloung            -               Tlou (elephant);

 Batshweneng         -               Tshwene (baboon);

 Bakubung            -               Kubu (hippopotamus);

 Baphuthing          -               Phuthi (duiker), lejwe (stone);

 Bafula-kolobeng     -               Kolobe (wild pig);

 Bahlaping           -               Tlhapi (fish);

 Banareng            -               Nare (buffalo);

 Bataung         -               Tau (lion);

Explanation.
It is worth noticing that the selection of these animals is either one of two things or both: the wildness of these animals and how dignified they seem to the group. This was done to symbolize Molimo oa Khale (God of the Old)   the "Invisible One". It is because of this these totems are sacred.

In the meditation of the spirits of the deceased, they are also believed to give guidance and direction in the groups' under takings and dangers. Unity in this group of people still exists, although the practicing of rituals is not as strict as it used to be. The practicing of different rituals is specific to a clan: all rituals   from marriages, to circumcision, to births and burials. This also happens to be one of the ways in which the clan names are preserved. Another is the naming of children after their predecessors   this was to make sure that the names of each clan are commemorated and kept within each family in each tribe. Basically, it is keeping the clan intact. The Sesotho name for it is "theellano"   naming a child after their grandparents or great-grandparents. 

A further important way of keeping the clans in tact was reciting the clan's Seboko (singular form of Diboko). I quote Mr. Raletshabisa Motale, from the village Dikhelekeng, in Butha-Buthe, Lesotho, who has much knowledge of Basotho culture, makes the following verbal addition on the reason behind the need for recitations:

"The recitation of the Seboko(Clan Name) means an identification of a person, a self-explanation according to the one's family from which one descends."

Switching from one Seboko to the other is not an easy task. It only occurred in extreme cases where, for example, a person had to change his identity because he had to flee into another family in a different clan. Another example is when a woman  married. An offering had to be made to the Badimo (the spirits of the deceased) and then an acceptance by the Badimo would be given to the one who is switching families. 

The reason there are so many clan names is because of the splitting up of groups. Some people wanted independence, and some violated the law so they were forced out. 

References.
 Batho Portal, South African Cultures ;

External links.
 Study South Africa;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5650193" title="AmeriDarts" nonfiltered="388" processed="385" dbindex="450390">



AmeriDarts is a darts arcade game released by Ameri in 1989. 

There are five different game variations: 
Flash (A Bull's Eye Game);
Sector Shoot-Out (a numbered target game);
301 (the traditional darts game);
High Score;
Cricket.







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="655978" title="Skitty" nonfiltered="389" processed="386" dbindex="450391">


 are one of the  fictional species of Pok\E9mon creatures from the multi-billion-dollar Pok\E9mon media franchise   a collection of video games, anime, manga, books, trading cards and other media created by Satoshi Tajiri. The purpose of Skitty in the games, anime and manga, as with all other Pok\E9mon, is to battle both wild Pok\E9mon, untamed creatures encountered while the player passes through various environments, and tamed Pok\E9mon owned by Pok\E9mon trainers.

The name Skitty is a portmanteau of the words skittish and kitty.

Biology.
Skitty is a Pok\E9mon that is considered cute even by its Pok\E9dex definition. According to the Pok\E9dex, it also loves to play with moving objects, just like Meowth. Because of this, it often chases its own tail until it is dizzy. However, Skitty is more like Clefairy due to rarity, pink color and its means of evolution. Its appearance is described by the following: each ear is split into three points, its tail starts skinny, followed by a sausage shape and ending with three cherry-like points. Its body is little and its paws are stumpy. Unlike Meowth, who lacks a visible nose, Skitty has a tiny nose that looks like a dot and squinty eyes.

Skitty are unique Pok\E9mon, as they are the only species of Pok\E9mon to naturally learn the move 'Assist', which randomly picks a move off the other Pok\E9mon from your party and attacks with it. However, there are Pok\E9mon which can have 'Assist' bred into them, like Meowth.( boy skitty female meowth)

Skitty might be the cutest Pokemon of all. Even Team rocket's Meowth couldn't resist the Kitten Pokemon's charms. Skitty loves to chase its tail-and anything else that moves-making it a very popular pet. Pronunciation: SKIT-tee Height: 2'0" Wheight: 24 lbs Possible moves: growl, tackle, tail whip, attract, sing, double slap, assist, charm, faint attack, covet, heal bell, double edge Evolves: with a moon stone to Declatty Type: normal region/regions: Hoenn

Characteristics.
Skitty has the habit of becoming fascinated by moving objects and chasing them around. This Pok\E9mon is known to chase after its own tail and becomes dizzy. In the wild, this Pok\E9mon lives in holes in the trees of forests. It is very popular as a pet because of its adorable looks. A Skitty's adorably cute behaviour makes it highly popular. In battle, it makes its tail puff out. It threatens foes with a sharp growl. It is said to be difficult to earn its trust. However, it is extremely popular for its cute looks and behavior.

In the video games.
Skitty can only be found on Route 116, east of Rustboro City, Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, and they appear rarely. Rustboro is also the first place players actually see Skitty because one of the minor NPCs has it in her house as a pet. However, after the Elite Four is beaten in the game, it is possible to find a news flash on TV saying Skitty is temporalily more common.  Skitty is also one of the sixteen starters in the Pok\E9mon Mystery Dungeon games. It evolves into Delcatty with the use of a Moon Stone.

Skitty has two abilities, the first is Cute Charm, which makes the opposite gender Pok\E9mon infantuated when doing a physical contact with Skitty. The ability is introduced from Pok\E9mon Ruby and Pok\E9mon Sapphire, while the second ability, Normal Skin, is introduced in Pokemon Pearl and Diamond. It makes all of Skitty's attacks become Normal-type. Both of the abilities are also possessed by its evolved form, Delcatty.

An egg containing a Skitty that knows Pay Day can be obtained from Pok\E9mon Box. It can be obtained by storing 500 Pok\E9mon from one game in the box. Before that, Pay Day was an exclusive move, only learnable by Meowth and Persian, but also by Hoppip by breeding.

In the Anime.
In the Pok\E9mon anime, May has a Skitty that she uses for Pok\E9mon Contests. It can juggle and perform a variety of attacks, for which it also is useful in battle, when it is not chasing its own tail. May's Skitty (like Jessie's  Wobbuffet and Misty's Psyduck) has a knack for coming out of its Pok\E9 Ball at some inappropriate moments, which may make May's opponent think it's her next battle Pok\E9mon.

In the Pok\E9mon Chronicles episode #323 "A Little Skitty" , Meowth falls in love with a female Skitty that's sleeping on a balcony and tries to impress her with flowers, songs, etc. However, a runaway Azurill always ruins the moment.

In the Manga.
In Pok\E9mon Adventures, Ruby had a Skitty named Coco (derived from its Japanese name, Eneko) which was his staple Pok\E9mon for Cute Contests. Coco evolved in Granite Cave when she accidentally touched a Moon Stone that was hanging on Steven's belt.

Other Properties.
Skitty has appeared on a few TCG cards in the EX series, its debut was in the EX:Ruby/Sapphire set.

References.
The following games and their instruction manuals: Pok\E9mon Red and Blue; Pok\E9mon Yellow; Pok\E9mon Stadium and Pok\E9mon Stadium 2; Pok\E9mon Gold, Silver, and Crystal; Pok\E9mon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald; Pok\E9mon FireRed and LeafGreen; Pok\E9mon Colosseum and Pok\E9mon XD: Gale of Darkness;
;Publications;
Barbo, Maria. The Official Pok\E9mon Handbook. Scholastic Publishing, 1999. ISBN 0-439-15404-9.
Loe, Casey, ed. Pok\E9mon Special Pikachu Edition Official Perfect Guide. Sunnydale, CA: Empire 21 Publishing, 1999. ISBN 1-930206-15-1.;
Nintendo Power. Official Nintendo Pok\E9mon FireRed & Pok\E9mon LeafGreen Player s Guide. Nintendo of America Inc., August 2004. ISBN 1-930206-50-X;
Mylonas, Eric. Pok\E9mon Pok\E9dex Collector s Edition: Prima s Official Pok\E9mon Guide. Prima Games, September 21 2004. ISBN 0-7615-4761-4;
Nintendo Power. Official Nintendo Pok\E9mon Emerald Version Player s Guide. Nintendo of America Inc., April 2005. ISBN 1-930206-58-5;



External links.
Official Pok\E9mon website;
Bulbapedia (a Pok\E9mon-centric Wiki) s article about Skitty as a species;
;
Pok\E9mon Dungeon Pok\E9dex entry, full of statistics analysis;
PsyPoke - Skitty Pok\E9dex entry and Usage Overview;
Smogon.com - Skitty Tactical Data;
;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3235064" title="Somewhere in the Sun... Best of the Dream Academy" nonfiltered="390" processed="387" dbindex="450392">


Somewhere In The Sun... Best Of The Dream Academy is a compilation album released by The Dream Academy in Japan in 2000. The compilation album contains the extended version of Life In A Northern Town and an acoustic version of The Party rather than the more common versions. At the time of its release, Nick Laird-Clowes revealed that the band actually had no involvement with the album, and he went on further to say that they weren t even informed by Warners that a compilation album was being made. According to Kate St John, around the same time that this album was being made, Warner Brothers were considering a US compilation album, but they and the band decided to re-issue their first album, The Dream Academy . Because of its somewhat limited availability, it is one of the more sought after Dream Academy albums.

Track listing.
Life In A Northern Town (Extended)     5:20;
Ballad in 4/4     3:59;
Power To Believe     5:15;
Lucy September     3:08;
Twelve-Eight Angel     4:20;
One Dream     2:33;
Hampstead Girl     3:41;
This World     5:07;
The Love Parade     3:46;
It'll Never Happen Again     3:32;
Love (Hare Krishna Mix)     7:02;
Indian Summer     4:55;
In Places On The Run     4:28;
(Johnny) New Light     4:23;
The Party (Acoustic Version)     3:32;
Please Please Please Let Me Get What I Want     3:07;
Waterloo     5:03;
Lowlands     3:46;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5371167" title="Metropolitan Goods Railway Line, Sydney" nonfiltered="391" processed="388" dbindex="450393">
The Metropolitan Goods Railway Line is a network of freight (or goods) railway lines in the suburbs of Sydney, Australia. 

Route.
The line starts at Port Botany in Sydney's south, and joins the Bankstown railway line at Sydenham. It then runs beside the Bankstown Line to the suburb of Dulwich Hill where it branches off and heads north through Lewisham, passing beneath the Main Suburban Railway before heading north through Lilyfield to the Glebe Island port and Rozelle Goods yard. A branch of the line then passes over a brick viaduct through Glebe Jubilee Park, then through a tunnel beneath the suburb of Glebe, to pass over another brick viaduct over Wentworth Park. The line then swings north to loop through the former industrial suburb of Pyrmont, before passing beside Darling Harbour. Here, it served the former large Darling Harbour Goods yard. It then passes south beside the former Ultimo Power Station (now the Powerhouse Museum) and Ultimo tram depot (now closed), under Railway Square to join the railway lines south of Central station. The line was electrified from Dulwich Hill to the Rozelle goods yard, although no electrified freight trains now run in New South Wales.

History.
The line opened in 1922. The section from Rozelle Goods Yard to Central Station was closed in the late 1980's when Darling Harbour was redeveloped from a Goods Yard into its current form as a leisure and tourist precinct.

Current.
In August 2004, the  Australian Rail Track Corporation and Rail Corporation New South Wales entered into an agreement for ARTC to lease the Metropolitan Freight Network, specified as being the dedicated freight lines within the rail corridors:
Sefton Park to Chullora;
Flemington South to Belmore;
Belmore to Marrickville (shared passenger and freight corridor - separate tracks);
Marrickville to Botany and Dulwich Hill to Rozelle.

The ARTC is constructing the Southern Sydney Freight Line to extend the freight network from Sefton to Macarthur.

The section between Dulwich Hill and Rozelle sees only irregular freight service now. Rozelle goods yard is overgrown and has been used intermittently for the storage of disused railway wagons and passenger cars. After unrealised plans to run suburban trains in the 1980's, the section from Lilyfield through Glebe, Pyrmont and Ultimo has been converted into the Metro Light Rail line to Central station.

See also.
 Railways in Sydney;
 CityRail;
 Rail transport in New South Wales;

References.
 NSW Rail Net;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="485068" title="Baron Fisher" nonfiltered="392" processed="389" dbindex="450395">

Baron Fisher, of Kilverstone in the County of Norfolk, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created in 1909 for the noted naval reformer Admiral of the Fleet Sir Jackie Fisher. His son, the second Baron, assumed in 1909 by Royal license the additional surname of Vavasseur. As of 2007 the title is held by the latter's son, the third Baron.

Barons Fisher (1909).
John Arbuthnot Fisher, 1st Baron Fisher (1841-1920);
Cecil Vavasseur Fisher, 2nd Baron Fisher (1868-1955);
John Vavasseur Fisher, 3rd Baron Fisher (b. 1921);

The Heir Apparent is the present holder's son The Hon. Patrick Vavasseur Fisher (b. 1953)

References.
Kidd, Charles, Williamson, David (editors). Debrett's Peerage and Baronetage (1990 edition). New York: St Martin's Press, 1990.
Leigh Rayment's Peerage Page;

ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="895408" title="Municipalities of Lithuania" nonfiltered="393" processed="390" dbindex="450396">


Lithuania is divided into 10 counties (Lithuanian: singular - apskritis, plural - apskritys) that are further sub-divided into 60 municipalities (Lithuanian: singular - savivaldyb , plural - savivaldyb s). There are three types of municipalities: 
 District municipalities (Lithuanian: rajono savivaldyb )   there are 43 district municipalities that roughly correspond to districts that existed under the Soviet rule. It is quite common to refer to these as simply districts because the word "municipality" was only added in 1994. These districts were created as a local version of raions.
 City municipalities (Lithuanian: miesto savivaldyb )   there are 8 city municipalities. Six of these are based on the 6 largest cities. These 6 cities are also capitals of their corresponding district municipalities, thus these city municipalities could correspond to urban municipalities, while the district municipalities are rural. The special status of Visaginas city municipality (based on the 13th largest city) can be explained by the fact that the majority of the residents are Russians. Palanga city municipality is called this despite actually including a group of popular sea resorts rather than a single city.
 Municipalities   there are 9 municipalities created in 2000 by "Municipalities Reform Act." They do not contain either "city" or "district" in their name. Neringa municipality existed before as Neringa city municipality. ;

All municipalities, with three exceptions, Klaip da district municipality (capital Garg\B8dai), Akmen  district municipality (capital Naujoji Akmen ) and Neringa municipality (capital Nida), are named after their capitals. Municipalities are further sub-divided into more than 500 elderates (Lithuanian: singular - seni nija, plural - seni nijos). For more information, see Subdivisions of Lithuania. 

List.


|-
| 5 ||  Bir\A8tonas municipality || Kaunas County || Bir\A8tonas  || align=center| 124 || align=center| 53 || align=center| 5,500 || align=center| 59 || align=center| 44.0 || align=center| 17 || align=center| 1
|-
| 6 ||  Bir\B8ai district municipality || Panev \B8ys County || Bir\B8ai  || align=center| 1476 || align=center| 16 || align=center| 35,500 || align=center| 34 || align=center| 24.1 || align=center| 44 || align=center| 8
|-
| 7 ||  Druskininkai municipality || Alytus County || Druskininkai  || align=center| 454 || align=center| 49 || align=center| 25,500 || align=center| 48 || align=center| 56.2 || align=center| 10 || align=center| 2
|-
| 8 ||  Elektr nai municipality || Vilnius County || Elektr nai  || align=center| 509 || align=center| 48 || align=center| 29,000 || align=center| 45 || align=center| 53.9 || align=center| 14 || align=center| 8
|-
| 9 ||  Ignalina district municipality || Utena County || Ignalina  || align=center| 1447 || align=center| 18-19 || align=center| 23,000 || align=center| 51 || align=center| 15.4 || align=center| 59 || align=center| 12
|-
| 10 ||  Jonava district municipality || Kaunas County || Jonava  || align=center| 944 || align=center| 40 || align=center| 52,300 || align=center| 15 || align=center| 55.4 || align=center| 11 || align=center| 9
|-
| 11 ||  Joni\A8kis district municipality || \A6iauliai County || Joni\A8kis  || align=center| 1152 || align=center| 34 || align=center| 32,000 || align=center| 39 || align=center| 27.7 || align=center| 36 || align=center| 10
|-
| 12 ||  Jurbarkas district municipality || Taurag  County || Jurbarkas  || align=center| 1507 || align=center| 13 || align=center| 37,800 || align=center| 30 || align=center| 25.1 || align=center| 43 || align=center| 11
|-
| 13 ||  Kai\A8iadorys district municipality  || Kaunas County || Kai\A8iadorys  || align=center| 1087 || align=center| 36 || align=center| 37,600 || align=center| 31 || align=center| 35.6 || align=center| 25 || align=center| 11
|-
| 14 ||  Kalvarija municipality ||   Marijampol  County || Kalvarija  || align=center| 441 || align=center| 50 || align=center| 13,900 || align=center| 56 || align=center| 31.5 || align=center| 31 || align=center| 4
|-
| 15 ||  Kaunas city municipality || Kaunas County || Kaunas  || align=center| 157 || align=center| 52 || align=center| 379,700 || align=center| 2 || align=center| 2418.5 || align=center| 2 || align=center| 11
|-
| 16 ||  Kaunas district municipality || Kaunas County || Kaunas   || align=center| 1496 || align=center| 14 || align=center| 81,400 || align=center| 7 || align=center| 54.4 || align=center| 13 || align=center| 23
|-
| 17 ||  Kazl  R da municipality ||   Marijampol  County || Kazl  R da  || align=center| 555 || align=center| 46 || align=center| 14,900 || align=center| 55 || align=center| 26.9 || align=center| 38 || align=center| 4
|-
| 18 ||  K dainiai district municipality || Kaunas County || K dainiai  || align=center| 1677 || align=center| 10 || align=center| 65,700 || align=center| 11 || align=center| 39.2 || align=center| 23 || align=center| 11
|-
| 19 ||  Kelm  district municipality || \A6iauliai County || Kelm   || align=center| 1705 || align=center| 8 || align=center| 40,900 || align=center| 27 || align=center| 24.0 || align=center| 45 || align=center| 11
|-
| 20 ||  Klaip da city municipality || Klaip da County || Klaip da  || align=center| 98 || align=center| 54 || align=center| 193,200 || align=center| 3 || align=center| 1917.6 || align=center| 4 || align=center| 1
|-
| 21 ||  Klaip da district municipality || Klaip da County || Garg\B8dai  || align=center| 1336 || align=center| 23 || align=center| 46,200 || align=center| 21 || align=center| 34.6 || align=center| 28 || align=center| 11
|-
| 22 ||  Kretinga district municipality || Klaip da County || Kretinga  || align=center| 989 || align=center| 39 || align=center| 45,700 || align=center| 22 || align=center| 46.2 || align=center| 15 || align=center| 8
|-
| 23 ||  Kupi\A8kis district municipality || Panev \B8ys County || Kupi\A8kis  || align=center| 1080 || align=center| 37 || align=center| 24,600 || align=center| 50 || align=center| 22.8 || align=center| 48 || align=center| 6
|-
| 24 ||  Lazdijai district municipality || Alytus County || Lazdijai  || align=center| 1309 || align=center| 26 || align=center| 27,200 || align=center| 46 || align=center| 20.8 || align=center| 52 || align=center| 14
|-
| 25 ||  Marijampol  municipality ||   Marijampol  County || Marijampol   || align=center| 755 || align=center| 44 || align=center| 70,900 || align=center| 9 || align=center| 93.9 || align=center| 9 || align=center| 9
|-
| 26 ||  Ma\B8eikiai district municipality  || Tel\A8iai County || Ma\B8eikiai  || align=center| 1220 || align=center| 30 || align=center| 67,300 || align=center| 10 || align=center| 55.2 || align=center| 12 || align=center| 9
|-
| 27 ||  Mol tai district municipality || Utena County || Mol tai  || align=center| 1368 || align=center| 22 || align=center| 25,400 || align=center| 49 || align=center| 18.6 || align=center| 56 || align=center| 11
|-
| 28 ||  Neringa municipality || Klaip da County || Nida  || align=center| 90 || align=center| 55 || align=center| 2,400 || align=center| 60 || align=center| 26.7 || align=center| 39-40 || align=center| 2
|-
| 29 ||  Pag giai municipality || Taurag  County || Pag giai  || align=center| 537 || align=center| 47 || align=center| 12,200 || align=center| 57 || align=center| 22.7 || align=center| 49 || align=center| 5
|-
| 30 ||  Pakruojis district municipality || \A6iauliai County || Pakruojis  || align=center| 1316 || align=center| 25 || align=center| 29,500 || align=center| 44 || align=center| 22.4 || align=center| 50 || align=center| 8
|-
| 31 ||  Palanga city municipality || Klaip da County || Palanga  || align=center| 79 || align=center| 57 || align=center| 17,700 || align=center| 54 || align=center| 223.0 || align=center| 8 || align=center| 1
|-
| 32 ||  Panev \B8ys city municipality || Panev \B8ys County || Panev \B8ys  || align=center| 52 || align=center| 59 || align=center| 119,800 || align=center| 5 || align=center| 2396.2 || align=center| 3 || align=center| -

|-
| 33 ||  Panev \B8ys district municipality || Panev \B8ys County || Panev \B8ys   || align=center| 2179 || align=center| 2 || align=center| 42,900 || align=center| 25 || align=center| 19.7 || align=center| 54 || align=center| 11
|-
| 34 ||  Pasvalys district municipality || Panev \B8ys County || Pasvalys  || align=center| 1289 || align=center| 27 || align=center| 35,000 || align=center| 36 || align=center| 27.1 || align=center| 37 || align=center| 11
|-
| 35 ||  Plung  district municipality || Tel\A8iai County || Plung   || align=center| 1105 || align=center| 35 || align=center| 44,200 || align=center| 23-24 || align=center| 40.0 || align=center| 21 || align=center| 11
|-
| 36 ||  Prienai district municipality || Kaunas County || Prienai  || align=center| 1031 || align=center| 38 || align=center| 35,800 || align=center| 33 || align=center| 34.7 || align=center| 27 || align=center| 10
|-
| 37 ||  Radvili\A8kis district municipality || \A6iauliai County || Radvili\A8kis  || align=center| 1635 || align=center| 11 || align=center| 52,200 || align=center| 16 || align=center| 31.9 || align=center| 30 || align=center| 13
|-
| 38 ||  Raseiniai district municipality || Kaunas County || Raseiniai  || align=center| 1573 || align=center| 12 || align=center| 44,200 || align=center| 23-24 || align=center| 28.1 || align=center| 34-35 || align=center| 12
|-
| 39 ||  Rietavas municipality || Tel\A8iai County || Rietavas  || align=center| 586 || align=center| 45 || align=center| 10,700 || align=center| 58 || align=center| 18.2 || align=center| 57 || align=center| 5
|-
| 40 ||  Roki\A8kis district municipality || Panev \B8ys County || Roki\A8kis  || align=center| 1807 || align=center| 4-5 || align=center| 42,500 || align=center| 26 || align=center| 23.5 || align=center| 46 || align=center| 10
|-
| 41 ||  Skuodas district municipality || Klaip da County || Skuodas  || align=center| 911 || align=center| 41 || align=center| 25,600 || align=center| 47 || align=center| 28.1 || align=center| 34-35 || align=center| 9
|-
| 42 ||  \A6akiai district municipality ||   Marijampol  County || \A6akiai  || align=center| 1453 || align=center| 17 || align=center| 38,800 || align=center| 29 || align=center| 26.7 || align=center| 39-40 || align=center| 14
|-
| 43 ||  \A6al ininkai district municipality || Vilnius County || \A6al ininkai  || align=center| 1491 || align=center| 15 || align=center| 39,400 || align=center| 28 || align=center| 26.4 || align=center| 42 || align=center| 13
|-
| 44 ||  \A6iauliai city municipality || \A6iauliai County || \A6iauliai  || align=center| 81 || align=center| 56 || align=center| 134,000 || align=center| 4 || align=center| 1654.7 || align=center| 6 || align=center| 2
|-
| 45 ||  \A6iauliai district municipality || \A6iauliai County || \A6iauliai   || align=center| 1807 || align=center| 4-5 || align=center| 51,600 || align=center| 17 || align=center| 28.6 || align=center| 33 || align=center| 11
|-
| 46 ||  \A6ilal  district municipality || Taurag  County || \A6ilal   || align=center| 1188 || align=center| 32 || align=center| 31,500 || align=center| 40 || align=center| 26.5 || align=center| 41 || align=center| 14
|-
| 47 ||  \A6ilut  district municipality || Klaip da County || \A6ilut   || align=center| 1706 || align=center| 7 || align=center| 55,400 || align=center| 13 || align=center| 32.4 || align=center| 29 || align=center| 11
|-
| 48 ||  \A6irvintos district municipality || Vilnius County || \A6irvintos  || align=center| 906 || align=center| 42 || align=center| 20,200 || align=center| 53 || align=center| 22.3 || align=center| 51 || align=center| 8
|-
| 49 ||  \A6ven ionys district municipality || Vilnius County || \A6ven ionys  || align=center| 1692 || align=center| 9 || align=center| 33,200 || align=center| 37 || align=center| 19.6 || align=center| 55 || align=center| 14
|-
| 50 ||  Taurag  district municipality || Taurag  County || Taurag   || align=center| 1179 || align=center| 33 || align=center| 52,700 || align=center| 14 || align=center| 44.7 || align=center| 16 || align=center| 8
|-
| 51 ||  Tel\A8iai district municipality || Tel\A8iai County || Tel\A8iai  || align=center| 1439 || align=center| 18-19 || align=center| 57,700 || align=center| 12 || align=center| 40.1 || align=center| 20 || align=center| 11
|-
| 52 ||  Trakai district municipality || Vilnius County || Trakai  || align=center| 1208 || align=center| 31 || align=center| 37,400 || align=center| 32 || align=center| 31.0 || align=center| 32 || align=center| 8
|-
| 53 ||  Ukmerg  district municipality || Vilnius County || Ukmerg   || align=center| 1395 || align=center| 21 || align=center| 48,700 || align=center| 20 || align=center| 34.9 || align=center| 26 || align=center| 12
|-
| 54 ||  Utena district municipality || Utena County || Utena  || align=center| 1229 || align=center| 29 || align=center| 50,200 || align=center| 18-19 || align=center| 40.8 || align=center| 19 || align=center| 10
|-
| 55 ||  Var na district municipality || Alytus County || Var na  || align=center| 2218 || align=center| 1 || align=center| 31,200 || align=center| 41 || align=center| 14.1 || align=center| 60 || align=center| 8
|-
| 56 ||  Vilkavi\A8kis district municipality ||   Marijampol  County || Vilkavi\A8kis  || align=center| 1259 || align=center| 28 || align=center| 50,200 || align=center| 18-19 || align=center| 39.9 || align=center| 22 || align=center| 12
|-
| 57 ||  Vilnius city municipality || Vilnius County || Vilnius  || align=center| 401 || align=center| 51 || align=center| 554,300 || align=center| 1 || align=center| 1382.2 || align=center| 7 || align=center| 21
|-
| 58 ||  Vilnius district municipality || Vilnius County || Vilnius   || align=center| 2129 || align=center| 3 || align=center| 88,500 || align=center| 6 || align=center| 41.6 || align=center| 18 || align=center| 23
|-
| 59 ||  Visaginas city municipality || Utena County || Visaginas  || align=center| 58 || align=center| 58 || align=center| 29,700 || align=center| 43 || align=center| 3299.7 || align=center| 1 || align=center| -
|-
| 60 ||  Zarasai district municipality || Utena County || Zarasai  || align=center| 1334 || align=center| 24 || align=center| 22,900 || align=center| 52 || align=center| 17.1 || align=center| 58 || align=center| 10
|}

Map.
This map shows counties as well as municipalities. Eight city municipalities and two municipality are marked by numbers:




Notes and references.
The capital is not part of that municipality, however the municipality council and other institutions are located in that city.
 Territory, population size (rounded up), and density are given according to Table: Total area, population and density (data from 2001 census), Statistics Lithuania (2006). Demographic Statistics Division. Regional Database. Retrieved 30 January 2006.
 Number of elderates was obtained from Counties at Lithuanian Central Internet Gates (2006) and was cross-referenced with the official website of every municipality. Dash (-) indicates that there are no elderates in that particular municipality.

See also.
 Subdivisions of Lithuania;
 Counties of Lithuania;
 List of cities in Lithuania;











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="1234928" title="Barahin-e-Ahmadiyya" nonfiltered="394" processed="391" dbindex="450397">
Barahin-e-Ahmadiyya is a book containing a compilation of writings by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad. A significant proportion of the subject matter of this book is dedicated to the defence of Islam, Muhammad and the Qur'an against allegations by opponents of Islam in late 19th century. The book was written in Mirza Ghulam Ahmad's native language, Urdu. It has since then been translated into English and many other languages.

External links.
English translation of Barahin-e-Ahmadiyya;
Original Barahin-e-Ahmadiyya;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3174359" title="Fanie de Villiers" nonfiltered="395" processed="392" dbindex="450398">

Petrus Stephanus ("Fanie") de Villiers (born 13 October 1964, Vereeniging, Transvaal), South Africa), was a cricketer who played 18 Tests and 83 One-day Internationals for South Africa as a right arm fast-medium bowler and right hand batsman between 1992 and 1998.

De Villiers debuted in first class cricket in 1985-86 for Northern Transvaal B. He opened the bowling in both innings, taking 5 for 33 in the second. He also played a season for English county team Kent in 1990.

In 1993-94, at the age of 29, he was called up for the Test tour of Australia. He was selected for the first Test in Melbourne but it was at the second Test in Sydney where De Villiers established himself at Test level. With Australia needing just 117 runs to win, De Villiers took 6 for 43, including the final wicket - a return catch from Glenn McGrath - to lead South Africa to a five run victory. De Villiers' match figures of 10 for 123 saw him named Man of the Match.

Former England captain Tony Greig had said at the start of the final innings that South Africa's chances were 100-1. At the Man of the Match presentation, De Villiers reminded him of his statement, adding, "You know South Africans; we never give up."

De Villiers showed further courage in the third Test in Adelaide when, despite not being able to bowl in Australia's second innings, he batted for 198 minutes as a nightwatchman, scoring 30 in South Africa's loss.

On this tour, De Villiers, when acting as twelfth man, would use a remote control car to send drinks to the batsmen on the field.

Against England at The Oval in 1994, De Villiers bowled a bouncer to English fast bowler Devon Malcolm hitting him on the front of the helmet and knocking him to the ground. Upon regaining his feet, Malcolm is reported to have said to the nearby South African fieldsmen, "You guys are history". Malcolm took 9 for 57 in South Africa's second innings, the sixth best bowling figures in Test history to that time, and England went on to win by 8 wickets.

1994-95 was an outstanding season for De Villiers. In five Tests, he took 36 wickets averaging 17.47. In the Test against Pakistan in Johannesburg, De Villiers became the first ever South African to score a fifty and take ten wickets in the same Test, scoring 66 not out and taking 6 for 81 and 4 for 27. He was subsequently named the South African Cricket Annual Cricketer of the Year in 1995, an award he had previously won in 1989.

A popular player, de Villers was known by the nickname Vinnige Fanie (Fast Fanie) by his Afrikaans-speaking fans.

De Villiers attended school at the Heidelberg Volkskool and matriculated in 1982. While there, he represented South African Schools as a javelin thrower.

Since his retirement, De Villiers has worked as a television commentator in South Africa and also works as a corporate speaker. He was a judge in the 1995 Miss World pageant in Sun City. De Villiers has become involved in raising money for deaf charities as he has both a brother and a daughter who are deaf. He raised R800 000 cycling from Cape Town to Pretoria and R189 000 sitting at the top of a floodlight tower at a Test match in Centurion.

In 2003, Trevor Chesterfield published a biography of De Villiers entitled Fanie De Villiers: Portrait of a Test Bowler.

.

 References . 

 First-Class Matches played by Fanie de Villiers from CricketArchive;
 Fanie de Villers - Cricinfo Profile;
 ;









ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5769073" title="Sonnet 35" nonfiltered="396" processed="393" dbindex="450399">


See also.
Shakespeare's sonnets

External links.
Analysis;
CliffsNotes;






ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6312838" title="All Due Respect (The Wire episode)" nonfiltered="398" processed="394" dbindex="450401">

"All Due Respect" is the second episode of the third season of the HBO original series, The Wire. The episode was written by David Simon from a story by David Simon & Ed Burns and was directed by Steve Shill. It originally aired on September 26, 2004.

Guest Starring roles.
Chad L. Coleman as Dennis "Cutty" Wise;
Jamie Hector as Marlo Stanfield;
Al Brown as Major Stanislaus Valchek;
Method Man as Melvin "Cheese" Wagstaff;
Melanie Nichols-King as Cheryl;
Richard Burton as Shaun "Shamrock" McGinty;
Tray Chaney as Poot Carr;
Anwan Glover as Slim Charles;
Kelli R. Brown as Kimmy;
Edwina Findley as Tosha Mitchell;
Ernest Waddell as Dante;
Brandon Fobbs as Fruit;
De'Rodd Hearns as Puddin;
Addison Switzer as Country;
Shamyl Brown as Donette;
Erik Todd Dellums as Randall Frazier;
Joilet F. Harris as Officer Caroline Massey;
Jay Landsman as Lieutenant Dennis Mello;
Richard DeAngelis as Colonel Raymond Foerster;
Ed Norris as Detective Ed Norris;
Rick Otto as Officer Kenneth Dozerman;
Melvin Williams as The Deacon;
Brian Anthony Wilson as Detective Vernon Holley (uncredited);
Ryan Sands as Truck (uncredited);
Benjamin Busch as Anthony Colicchio (uncredited);
Nakia Dillard as Lambert (uncredited);
